The Project Gutenberg eBook of Report on the Migration of Birds in the
Spring and Autumn of 1886., by J. A. Harvie-Brown

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Report on the Migration of Birds in the Spring and Autumn of
       1886.
       Eighth Report. (Vol. II, No. 3.)

Author: J. A. Harvie-Brown
        J. Cordeaux
        R. M. Barrington
        A. G. More
        W. Eagle Clarke

Release Date: August 10, 2021 [eBook #66032]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Tom Cosmas from file generously made available at The
             Internet Archive and placed in the Public Domain.

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK REPORT ON THE MIGRATION OF BIRDS
IN THE SPRING AND AUTUMN OF 1886. ***






                                REPORT

                                ON THE

                          MIGRATION OF BIRDS.

                         EIGHTH REPORT, 1886.

                              EDINBURGH:

                    PRINTED BY M'FARLANE & ERSKINE,
                      14 and 19 ST JAMES SQUARE.

                                 1887.



                         Price Two Shillings.





                                REPORT
                                ON THE
                          MIGRATION OF BIRDS
                                IN THE
                      SPRING AND AUTUMN OF 1886.


                                  BY

                Mr J. A. HARVIE-BROWN, Mr J. CORDEAUX,
                  Mr R. M. BARRINGTON, Mr A. G. MORE,
                                  AND
                          Mr W. EAGLE CLARKE.



                            EIGHTH REPORT.

                           (Vol. II, No. 3.)



                              EDINBURGH:

                    PRINTED BY M'FARLANE & ERSKINE,
                      14 and 19 ST JAMES SQUARE.

                                 1887.




PREFACE.


The following Report contains a summary of the investigations of a
Committee reappointed by the British Association for the Advancement
of Science, at Birmingham, in 1886, to consist of Professor Newton,
Mr J. A. Harvie-Brown, Mr John Cordeaux, Mr W. Eagle Clarke, Mr R.
M. Barrington, and Mr A. G. More, for the purpose of obtaining (with
the consent of the Master and Elder Brethren of the Trinity House,
the Commissioners of Northern Lights, and the Commissioners of Irish
Lights) observations on the Migrations of Birds at Lighthouses and
Lightships, and of reporting on the same at Manchester in 1887. Mr
Cordeaux to be the Secretary.

The returns relating to Scotland have been arranged by Mr J. A.
Harvie-Brown; for the East Coast of England, by Mr Cordeaux; for the
West Coast of England, by Mr W. Eagle Clarke; and those for the Coasts
of Ireland, by Mr R. M. Barrington and Mr A. G. More.




CONTENTS.


                                                         PAGE

  East Coast of Scotland,                                   1

  East Coast of England,                                   27

  West Coast of Scotland,                                  54

  West Coast of England and Wales, and the Isle of Man,    79

  Irish Coasts,                                           119

[Illustration]


                           LIST OF STATIONS.

      1. Iceland.              =England--East Coast.=
      2. Do.
      3. Faroe.                   30. Longstone L.H.
      3_b_. Fair Isle.            31. Inner Farn L.H.
                                  32. Coquet Island L.H.
  =Scotland--East Coast.=         33. 5 Buoy Tees L.V.
                                  34. Whitby High L.H.
      4. N. Unst.                 35. Flamborough Head L.H.
      5. Whalsey Skerries.        36. Spurn Point L.H.
      6. Bressay Sound.           37. Spurn L.V.
      7. Sumburgh Head.           38. Inner Dowsing L.V.
      8. N Ronaldshay.            39. Dudgeon L.V.
      9. Start Point.             40. Outer Dowsing L.V.
     10. Auskerry.                41. Llyn Wells L.V.
   { 11. Hoy Sound (Low).         42. Hasbro' L.V.
   { 12. Hoy Sound (High),        43. Leman and Ower L.V.
     13. Cantick Head.            44. Hunstanton L.H.
     14. Pentland Skerries.       45. Cromer L.H.
     15. Dunnet Head.             46. Hasbro' L.H.
     16. Holborn Head.            47. Winterton L.H.
     17. Noss Head.               48. Newarp L.V.
     18. Tarbet Ness.             49. Cookie L.V.
     19. Cromarty.                50. Corton L.V.
     20. Chanonry Point.          51. Orfordness L.H.
     21. Covesea Skerries.        52. Languard Point L.H.
     22. Kinnaird Head.           53. Shipwash L.V.
     23. Buchan Ness.             54. Swin Middle L.V.
     24. Girdleness.              55. Nore L.V.
     25. Montroseness.            56. Tongue L.V.
     26. Bell Rock.               57. Kentish Knock L.V.
     27. Isle of May.             58. Galloper L.V.
     28. Inchkeith.               59. North Foreland L.H.
     28_b_. Fidra (1885).         60. North Sand Head L.V.
     29. St Abbs Head.            61. Gull L.V.
                                  62. Eastside L.V.
                                  63. South Foreland L.H.
                                  64. South Sand Head L.V.
                                  65. Varne L.V.

  =Scotland--West Coast.=      =England--West Coast.

     81. Cape Wrath.             119. Bahama Bank L.V.
     82. Rhu Stoir.              120. St Bees L.H.
     83. Butt of Lewis.          121. Selker L.V.
     84. Stornoway.              122. Morecambe Bay L.V.
     85. Island Ghlais.          123. Dee L.V.
     86. Monach Isles.           124. Air L.H.
     87. Ushenish.               125. Menai L.H.
     88. Barra Head.             126. Skerries L.H.
     89. Rona.                   127. Holyhead Breakwater L.H.
     90. Kyleakin.               128. South Stack L.H.
     91. Isle Ornsay.            129. Carnarvon Bay L.V.
     92. Ardnamurchan.           130. St Tudwalls L.H.
     93. Skerryvore and Hynish   131. Bardsey Island L.H.
           Signal Tower, Tiree,  132. Cardigan Bay L.V.
     94. Dhuheartach.            133. South Bishop L.H.
     95. Sound of Mull.          134. Smalls L.H.
     96. Corran Ferry.           135. Great Castlehead L.H.
     97. Lismore.                136. Milford L.H.
     98. Fladda, Easdale.        137. Caldy L.H.
     99. Rhuvaal.                138. Helwick L.V.
    100. M'Arthur's Head.        139. Scarweather L.V.
    101. Skervuile.              140. Nash L.H.
    102. Rhinns of May.          141. Breaksea L.V.
    103. Lochindaul.             142. Flatholm L.H.
    104. Mull of Kintyre.        143. English and Welsh
    105. Sanda.                         Grounds L.V.
    106. Devaar.                 144. Usk L.H.
    107. Pladda, Arran.          145. Avon L.H.
    108. Lamlash.                146. Burnham L.H.
    109. Turnberry.              147. Bull Point L.H.
    109_b_. Ailsa Craig          148. Bideford L.H.
           (building, 1885).     149. Lundy L.H.
    110. Corsewall.              150. Hartland Point L.H.
    111. Loch Ryan.              151. Trevose Head L.H.
    112. Portpatrick.            152. Godrevy L.H.
    113. Mull of Galloway.       153. Longships L.H.
    114. Little Ross.            154. Sevenstones L.V.
                                 155. Wolf-Rock L.H.
  =Isle of Man.=                 156. Scilly L.H.
                                 157. Bishop's Rock L.H.
    115. Point of Ayre.          158. Lizard L.H.
    116. Douglas Head.           159. Falmouth Harbour L.H.
    117. Langness (1880).        160. Eddystone L.H.
    118. Chickens Rock.          161. Plymouth Breakwater L.H.
                                 162. Start L.H.

  =Ireland.=

      1. Fastnet.                 20. Arranmore.
      2. Galley Head.             21. Rathlin O'Birne.
      3. Old Head, Kinsale.       22. Killybegs.
      4. Mine Head.               23. Oyster Island.
      5. Dungarvan.               24. Broadhaven.
      5*.Coningbeg. Lt.-ship.     25. Eagle Island, E.
      6. Barrels Rock Lt.-ship.   26. Eagle Island, W.
      7. Tuskar.                  27. Blackrock, Mayo.
      8. Arklow S. Lt.-ship.      28. Blacksod Point.
      8*.Arklow N. Lt.-ship.      29. Clare Island.
     10. Kish Bank Lt.-ship.      30. Slyne Head, N.
     11. Howth Baily.             31. Slyne Head, S.
     12. Rockabill.               32. Arran Island, N.
     13. Copeland Island.         33. Straw Island.
     14. Maidens.                 34. Arran Island, S.
     15. Rathlin.                 36. Samphire Island.
     16. Innishtrahull.           37. Tearaght.
     17. Dunree Head.             38. Valentia.
     18. Lough Swilly.            39. Skelligs.
     19. Tory Island.             40. Dursey Island.


=Outlying Stations.=

    Heligoland,
    Stevns Fyr, Zealand.
    Malmo, Sweden.
    Casquets L.H., Alderney.
    Hanois L.H., Guernsey.




                             EIGHTH REPORT

                                  ON

                        THE MIGRATION OF BIRDS

                                IN THE

                      SPRING AND AUTUMN OF 1886.

                            ==============




                        EAST COAST OF SCOTLAND.


The usual schedules were sent to all the stations, except Tay
Light-ship and Carr Rock. Twelve stations on the East Coast of Scotland
have returned thirty-six schedules. Pentland Skerries gives the
heaviest returns with nine schedules. Isle of May follows with eight
schedules; and N. Unst is next in importance. Then Bell Rock with two,
and Fidra with three, run it very close. We would like returns from
Carr Rock and Tay Light-ship next season, and will forward schedules,
&c.

We follow the same plan as in previous reports. The present year's
returns are indicated by asterisks.

The migration values of the various stations of the Scottish Coasts are
explained in the Report for 1884, p. 10, and need not be repeated here.

EAST OF SCOTLAND.

The names of the Reporters are given under "Diary from the Stations."

    Returns
  in 8 years   1886.
  including   Actual
    1886.     returns.                            Values.  Feet.

  Shetland.

      6         *   4. N. Unst,                      IV.    230
                    5. Whalsey Skerries,             II.    143
                    6. Bressay,                     III.    105
      6         *   7. Sumburgh Head,                 I.

  Orkney.

      7         *   8. N. Ronaldshay,                IV.
                    9. Start Point.                   V.
      6            10. Auskerry,                      I.
                   11. Hoy Sound (Low),               V.
                   12. Hoy Sound (High),              V.
                   13. Cantick Head,                III.
      8            14. Pentland Skerries,             I.
      8         *  15. Dunnet Head, Caithness,        V.
                   16. Holborn Head, Caithness,       V.
     1st        *  17. Noss Head, Caithness,          V.
                   18. Tarbat Ness, East Ross,        V.
      6         *  19. Cromarty, East Cromarty,       V.
      4            20. Chanonry Point, Elgin,         V.
                   21. Covesea Skerries, Elgin,       V.
                   22. Kinnaird Head, Aberdeen,       V.
                   23. Buchan Ness, Aberdeen,         V.
     1st        *  24. Girdleness, Aberdeen,          V.
                   25. Montroseness, Forfar,          V.
      8         *  26. Bell Rock, Fife Coast,         I.
                   26B. Carr Rock Light-ship,
                         Fife Coast,                  ?      ?
      5         *  27. Isle of May, Firth of Forth,   I.
      7         *  28. Inchkeith, Firth of Forth,    IV.
      2         *  28B. Fidra, Firth of
                         Forth, instituted 1886,       ?     ?
                   29. St Abb's Head, Berwickshire,    V.   224

_Diary from the Stations._

_N. Unst._--John Nichol (principal) sends in seven well-filled
schedules. Mr Nichol has the following notes: "March, 25th.--I am
told the Black Crows were not seen in former years. Although a severe
winter time, birds are much earlier seen, also of various kinds.
August.--Stormy Petrels do not breed on this rock, but do so among
the rocks on shore. Puffins, Razorbills, Tysties, Kittiwakes, and a
few Gulls, also one pair of Seapies breed on the rock. Puffins are
fewer in number this year than in former times. September.--Much
greater movements in September 1886 than has been in former years.
I am told that on an island four miles to the west of us Pictarnies
breed in great numbers. None ever come near us." Mr J. N. sends one
schedule devoted entirely to Solan Geese, and adds the note: "We do
not see greater numbers together than twenty at a time, and down to
one. General occupation is fishing; but flocks on 11th, 13th, and 14th
October were supposed to be migrating right away." Mr J. N. then adds:
"Since filling up this schedule (to date of 25th October), have been
told that on 29th October three large Swans rested on the Loch of Cliff
on their way south. November 5th.--One Eagle shot near Holderswick
measured across the wings seven feet. A Woodpecker seen at Baltasound.
When fish seem plentiful about the rock, Common Gulls are in abundance;
occasionally Herring Gulls and Iceland Gulls, Black-backed Gulls,
Common Skua Gull, of which a few breed at Unst. On shore at the Loch of
Cliff, throughout the autumn, a Herring Bird, some Plovers, Curlews,
Snipes, and Wild Ducks. A few of the latter breed at the Loch of Cliff.
At Lerwick, on 10th October, two large flocks of Swans passed over the
town, flying in a southerly direction; and one flew very low while
near the town. Up to the date of 30th October 1886, no Wren has been
seen; should I get one, shall not fail to send it on. One seen on 2
2d November; could not be caught." At date of December 20th, Mr J.
N. writes: "All birds have now deserted us. None seen since the 1st
December, except in favourable weather, such as are mentioned in the
schedule for December 1885, _viz._:--Starlings, Sparrow Hawks, Crows,
and Gulls. We had no great rushes of birds in the night time this year
like last year; but a greater number seen in the day time. On November
18th sixty Bottle-nosed Whales, the largest about twenty-two feet long,
were captured at Cullivoe, Unst. Five boats (manned) put off and gave
chase. Boats having got to seaward, they were turned for the shore,
and were getting well in, when they suddenly turned about and put to
sea again. Boats, after a hard struggle, again got the off-side of
them, and slowly commenced to shorten the distance between them and
the shore. Not until 6 P.M., after six hours' chase, were the boats
successful in reaching the 'school.' After the monsters were stranded
the scene was very animated, as they lashed the water to foam with
their tails in their frantic efforts to get away again. It was not
till late at night that killing operations were accomplished. On 24th
November sixty whales were exposed for sale, and realised a sum of
£119. The number of buyers was limited, but the competition was keen."
On January 11, 1887, Mr J. N., in a letter, records the occurrence
of one Snowy Owl seen on the summit of Hermann's Hill; and an Eagle,
flying high over, came down and gave the shepherd's dogs chase, but
sheered off when it saw the shepherd.

_Sumburgh Head._--Sends one schedule, but adds: "Birds are very scarce
here." Sent me a specimen of a rare bird, which I knew at once to be
a specimen of _Phylloscopus superciliosus_, and which has already
been recorded [_Proceedings Royal Physical Society, Edinburgh_, vol.
for 1885-86, p. 298], and was exhibited at a meeting of that Society.
Writing in reply to inquiries of mine, under 16th October, to Mr
Youngclause, he writes: "I was after a small bird to-day about the
dykes, very similar, but it got away."

_North Ronaldshay._--John Tulloch. One well-filled schedule, ranging
from March 18 to September 15.

_Pentland Skerries._--John Gilmour (principal) sends nine
heavily-filled schedules. In a letter of 1st October, Mr Gilmour speaks
of great numbers of Twites on the island. "Of course they breed here;
but I think their numbers have been increased of late, as there is
a great flock of them." Later he adds: "I may mention that the Rock
Pipit is resident here; and also the Lark, Starling, and Rock Dove
are scarcely ever absent from the station." A little earlier--_viz._,
29th September--Mr G. writes: "The autumn migration is not yet quite
commenced, although there have been a few birds seen; but should
the wind work round to the east we will likely have a rush. I send
you the names of all the birds that bred here this season (1886),
_viz._:--Stormy Petrel, Puffin, Tern [two species,--J. A. H.-B.], Black
Guillemot, Oyster-Catcher, Eider Duck, Ringed Plover, Dunlin, Lapwing,
Corncrake, Rock Dove, Starling, Lark, Twite, Wheatear, and Rock Pipit.
The above are the only species which breed regularly here. The Herring
Gull and Grey Crow build some seasons, but not this year. I have heard
it said the Snipe breeds also, but I have never seen the nest during
the last five years--the time I have been at this station.

"I take little notice of Solans in the schedules, as I may say they
have been going past all season in all weathers, and I still see some
going east yet (29th September)." (See also under Mull of Galloway,
West Coast, visited by Mr G. on his holiday, 16th August to 6th
September.) A day-to-day return of Gannets or Solan Geese desired, and
a separate schedule devoted to the species.

Writing again on 21st October, Mr G. says: "I again beg to send you
two schedules. Since the 4th we have had a great rush of migrants.
The prevailing wind being from the east, as soon as it shifted round
to the west birds began to leave; but were back again as soon as the
wind shifted to east. I send you wings and feet for identification,
and will be much obliged by an early reply if I have named the species
correctly."[1] Later he has the note: "Solans ceased going east about
the end of September; only a straggler seen now and again during this
month (October)." Besides the above, Mr Gilmour has many interesting
notes, which, however, come to be more easily worked from the schedules
into the text under species.

[Footnote 1: Correctly named:--Blackcap and Great Spotted Woodpecker
[Recorded _Proc. Roy. Phys. Soc. Edinb._, vol. for 1885-86, pp. 298,
299.--J. A. H.-B.]. Also immature Pied Flycatcher, 7th October.]

_Dunnet Head._--David Laidlaw (principal) sends one schedule, in which
are the following notes: "On the 23d May a swallow entered Dunnet
Established Church during the forenoon service (one of the doors being
open), and after flying through the church for about half an hour,
made its exit by the same door that it entered by. S.E., fresh breeze,
clear." Under date of January 15, 1887, he writes: "For the last month
I see a good many Song Thrushes about the fields daily. Starlings and
Linnets are to be seen here in large flocks all the year round.[2] No
birds struck or lighted on the lantern during the year except the Wren
mentioned in schedule. As to sea-birds, the Gulls[3] came to breed
about the 1st of March, and left about the latter end of September. The
other birds arrived about six weeks later, and took their departure
about a month earlier than the Gulls. During the latter end of July,
and the months of August and September, almost every minute of the day,
Solan Geese pass and re-pass in flocks of two or three up to twenty or
thereby." [A day-to-day return of numbers in a schedule devoted to the
species might prove valuable to our Committee.--J. A. H.-B.]

[Footnote 2: These are probably true Rose-Linnets, which abound in
the north of Caithness. The Twite is comparatively rare, at least in
summer.--J. A. H.-B.]

[Footnote 3: Herring Gulls breed in astonishing numbers all round the
coast from Dwarwick Head.--J. A. H.-B. Lesser B. B. Gull is rare.]

_Noss Head._--James Ferrier sends a schedule, with the note: "Sorry I
cannot give you as full a return (but I have given you all that we
have taken note of) as I could have done from the Little Ross, having
been transferred from there in February last. Several species of birds
lay in the rocks about this headland, such as the Common Gull [?
Herring Gull.--J. A. H.-B.], Cormorant, Tystie, Guillemot, Razorbill.
The Gulls are very tame here, often sitting on the tops of the houses
throughout the town (Wick), drawn there by the great quantity of fish
caught, and hanging about the houses." We are very glad to get our
first return from Noss Head, however light, and we hope Mr Ferrier will
continue to assist us.--(See last Report, 1885, p. 15.)

_Cromarty Lighthouse._--Robt. S. Ritson sends one schedule, January
1886 to December 27, mostly referring to local migrations of Ducks,
Geese, Gulls, which have always special interest also attaching to them.

_Girdleness._--C. C. Irvine sends one schedule, the first received
from this station. He adds: "Very few birds come this way; but Rooks,
Sparrows, and Gulls are to be seen almost every day; but as they are
not migratory, I presume they are not worthy of notice, and our time
being much occupied during the day, many may pass without our observing
them."

_Bell Rock._--James Jack sends two carefully written schedules as
usual, strictly adhering to the headings, which always makes the work
of posting the items into the ledger easier for the Committee. Mr
Jack, after an illness on shore between 23d October and 11th November,
writes, on resuming duty: "As yet, Redwings have been the most prolific
in numbers visiting this station this season; in fact, night after
night, nothing else. All our usual winter feathered companions are now
again thickly around us. Dunters are very abundant this season."

This remarkable immigration of Redwings is scarcely noted at any other
stations; at least, with regard to its exclusiveness.

_Isle of May._--Joseph Agnew sends eight schedules filled with his
usual care, and dating February 3 to November 6, 1886, and kept up
till his removal by the authorities to the Monach Isles, off the Outer
Hebrides, the electric lighting of the Isle of May being completed, and
an electric engineer placed in charge. Under date of April 6, 1886, Mr
Agnew writes: "I send you the Turtle Dove. It had been very severely
shot before it came here by some one. I did not send it to Small, but
made the best of it myself, covering the wounds as well as I could."
Under date of October 12, 1886, Mr Agnew writes: "The old carboy is
still doing duty yet, and has been emptied two or three times. On
one occasion it contained a _cosmic mouse_, but whether it came from
Jupiter or Mars, or some other far off world, I do not know." As this
carboy was put _in situ_ by ourselves in October 1884, in behalf of
the Marine Station at Granton, we would be interested to know whether
it has yielded any scientific results. Perhaps Mr John Murray will
enlighten us. Regarding the electric light, Mr Agnew writes: "It will
be ready in a few weeks, perhaps three weeks. I do not know what effect
it will have on the birds. The light will be very intense, and the
most powerful light in existence. The room in which the trials are
now being conducted has the appearance of a place brilliantly lighted
up at night, though it is in the day time. The daylight is made to
disappear. If the light were a fixed one, same as the old one, I think
it might have a _good_[4] effect, but I am afraid its quick revolving
character will be against it. The light has been revolving for the
last two months with the oil lamp, and though some birds have come to
the lantern, I don't think, considering the numbers of birds, so many
have struck as heretofore. But as I am leaving this, I very much fear
the reports will be very meagre in future, if there be any at all. The
man who succeeds me has been here for a month or more, and he seems to
have no notion of the matter, and has never interested himself in it;
and besides, he will be very little in the light-room; his principal
business will be in the engine-house, though he is to be head-keeper.
You may perhaps be able to get him interested in it. The two men,
however, whose special duty will be in the light-room, may take up
the subject, and do something; but I would say--be very thankful for
what you have already got from Isle of May." In a later letter (26th
October), Mr Agnew says: "I am now almost convinced that few birds will
come near the lantern, the revolutions are so quick, _viz._, eight
flashes in the minute. We can see the birds going round with the rays,
and though they make a dash at the lantern, before they reach it the
light leaves them, and they turn round after it again, and repeat the
same. During all last week there was one Redstart, one Starling, and
one Robin at the lantern; not a Woodcock has struck this year; the
Goldcrests which used to flock about the lantern never come near it;
_though they are very numerous on the island_,[5] I have only seen two
at the lantern. A fixed white light is no doubt best for attracting
birds; the alternate light and darkness baffles them altogether, and
the quicker the revolutions are, the worse baffled they become. There
has been almost total absence during the past two years of Redpoles
and Siskins." On the 19th November Mr Agnew writes: "James" (his son)
"shot a Great Spotted Woodpecker on the 12th of this month. It is the
first of its kind I have seen here. It came after the great N.-E. gale
reported in my last schedule. The wind continued to blow strong from
the N.-E. for days after the gale took off. I have sent it to Small to
get stuffed and set up. I want to give it in a present to the young
lady to whom my son, Joseph, is going to be married at Dunbar." Mr
Agnew then continues: "There has not been much worth reporting since I
sent you my last schedule (Nov. 6, 1886); the only birds (not resident)
were some Wagtails and Common Wrens. I suspect very much you have got
the last schedule from Isle of May. I am sorry for that, as you see
from the Woodpecker that strange things are always turning up. I am
very sorry at leaving the collection here, and I doubt if it will be so
well taken care of when I am away."

[Footnote 4: _i.e._, effectual in alluring the birds to it.]

[Footnote 5: Distinctly illustrative of the effect of the quickly
revolving light.--J. A. H.-B.]

We have given Mr Agnew's correspondence very fully, as it is the
last we shall get from him at the Isle of May, and it would be very
ungracious if we did not take this opportunity of once again expressing
our warmest thanks for his able assistance and always interesting
correspondence. Comparisons are said to be invidious, but we are quite
sure none of his fellow-keepers will grudge him the fullest praise
which our Migration Committee can accord. Mr Cordeaux says (16th Oct.
1886): "I am much concerned that Agnew is leaving the Isle of May." We
do not undervalue the observations of any of our reporters, many of
whom have not the opportunities of observation which others have; but
we can point to a good many more of the lighthouse keepers, both at
the best stations and at the least frequented, who, according to their
opportunities, are not far behind Mr Agnew, if at all; and there is
ever increasing interest and ability displayed year by year.

_Fidra._--Mr Win. Ross has taken up the subject earnestly, and sends
us three excellent schedules, carefully adhering to the columnar
arrangement, which is so important to the Members of Committee,
who have to transcribe into the ledger, and then write its Report.
Attention to this is of infinite service and saving of time in getting
the Reports printed. We are much obliged to Mr Ross for the care taken
in this respect.

Under date of 4th September, Mr W. Ross writes: "I have to acknowledge
receipt of your printed circular, concerning envelopes to contain
wings of unknown birds, to be forwarded to you for identification, and
labels for marking the same." .... "After Sunday, my last schedule,
I continued making jottings, and the 24th of March, from 9 P.M. to
daylight, was really interesting. The flocks of birds about the
lantern were immense, and so numerous, that in striking the glass
they broke the outside glass protector of our thermometer. There has
not been anything unusual since that date." [Fidra promises well to
be an important observatory, under certain conditions of wind and
weather.--J. A. H.-B.]

Later, under date of 18th September 1886, Mr W. Ross says: "Had I
known Moths would have been of any use to you, I believe I could have
given you a varied, rare, and enormous parcel. Last month it was Moths
everywhere, after darkness set in. I had to sweep them down with a
towel, some very large and beautiful. Mr Anderson (of Messrs A. & F.,
Edinr., Advocates?) seems a keen entomologist, and I was describing
some of these to him (on the occasion of a visit he paid to Fidra on
the 6th September). One beautiful specimen--not a moth, I think--of a
size between a daddy-long-legs and dragon-fly, and much the same shape;
enormous bronze wings, beautiful vermilion body, black head, with a red
(or yellow?) streak (or spot?), and antennas more like a young lobster
than anything else.

"Eider Ducks, I understand, used to breed on all the islands about
here. But this year a man got a dozen small boats, and hired them out
at N. Berwick; the consequence is that the Ducks have entirely left the
Craig and Lamb Islands owing to their nests having been plundered. We
on Fidra consequently have had a greater number of birds breeding, and
found many nests with 6 to 8 eggs; also Terns, and many smaller birds.
As we are strictly prohibited from using a gun on this precious island,
I can't send you many specimens; but if anything does turn up, I will
not fail to send it you."

Later, under date of 1st October, in reply to inquiries, Mr W. Ross
writes: "It was the latter half of August that these Moths were so
numerous; and though in September there were a few, it was nothing in
comparison with the multitudes that occurred the previous month. Some
guide such as you suggest" [referring to Johns' "Book of Birds"], "to
enable observers to recognise species, would be of immense advantage.
I am woefully deficient in this respect, and I am persuaded others
are equally so. I hope your Committee will succeed in supplying some
reliable book to render assistance in this respect."


Separate Report under Genera and Species.

Turdidæ.--Thrushes.--In February the only returns are from Bell Rock
and Isle of May, between the 3d and 20th; earliest at Isle of May on
3d, one Missel Thrush; N.E., light clear. Other species mentioned are
Blackbirds, Redwings (along with Larks and Starlings), at Bell Rock,
with S.W. fresh breeze. Great many struck and killed. Two female
blackbirds at Isle of May on 15th, and possibly remaining to breed.
Mavises on 20th at Isle of May, and some Fieldfares; showers of snow.

In March no great movement, and a few records from Pentland Skerries
of single or small numbers of Blackbirds, and one Thrush on 10th and
23d. Solitary Redwing on 23d at Isle of May; and numbers of Thrushes at
Fidra (XXVIII. B.), flying about all night.

_Spring._--In April scattered birds only up to end of the month at Isle
of May of Fieldfares, one Redwing (23d), one Ring Ouzel (21st); but on
19th, at Pentland Skerries, is entered the record (which seems one of
some importance): "Ring Ouzels and Song Thrushes a great rush; strong
S.E. and haze." And on 26th: "A flock of Fieldfares (mod. S.E., haze),
birds which are seldom seen here in spring." Also on the 19th at North
Ronaldshay, a station not usually sending large spring returns: "A
great number of Thrushes were on the island. Stopped two days;" wind
S.E., haze. In May, at Isle of May, one record only of a Fieldfare at
the light on the 5th. No more till autumn.

_In Autumn._--Earliest record of Blackbird at Pentland Skerries on 9th
August. Single records at Isle of May of Common Mavis "migrating" on
19th, and of a Missel Thrush on 30th; W.S.W., clear. _Latest_ record,
Fieldfares on 20th to 28th November, "a good many;" at Dunnet Head,
"seen all day;" and scattered records through November at Pentland
Skerries of Thrush and Blackbird. In September also, quite scattered
records of single or very small lots of Blackbirds, Ring Ouzels,
Fieldfares, and Mavises, from Pentland Skerries, Isle of May, and
Fidra. But in October masses and rushes innumerable from the following
stations:--Pentland Skerries (Redwings, 4th to 16th). Isle of May
(Blackbirds, mostly females, 7th; Fieldfares, "numbers" on 18th, N.E.
gale; Blackbirds, all males, on 21st, wind from E. to S.W.; Redwings,
rush on 28th, S.E., fresh; also of Fieldfares and Ring Ouzels and
Blackbirds). Again, at Pentland Skerries, great numbers of _Turdidæ_
on 29th, of all kinds. Greatest rush at Pentland Skerries of Redwings
and Song Thrushes (along with Goldcrests and Chaffinches, Robins, a
few Ring Ouzels, and Woodcock); strong S.E. gale and rain. At Bell
Rock, Redwings (without other species in any numbers), 22d to 26th
October every night in numbers; wind from light W. to E. and N.E. All
through October indications, more or less pronounced, at the following
stations:--N. Unst, Sumburgh Head, Pentland Skerries, Noss Head, Bell
Rock, Isle of May, Fidra.

From the above notes the migration of _Turdidæ_ appears to have been
unusually compressed and sudden.

Saxicolinæ.--Chats.--_In Spring._--In March earliest two Redstarts
("the first seen here") at N. Unst; S.E. and fog. Wheatears at Isle of
May on 24th and 26th, but only straggling birds. In April, solitary
record on 1st at Pentland Skerries. Two on 27th at Bell Rock, and same
date at Isle of May; and Redstarts ("mostly males") intermittent all
April. In May, at Isle of May, Redstarts ("mostly females") on 3d, and
intermittent up to 19th; also Wheatears, Whinchats (numbers on the 8th,
and rush or great numbers on the 18th all day); W.S.W., strong. In June
a single solitary record of a Stonechat (? Wheatear) from N. Unst.

_In Autumn._--Few records in August; but on 31st numbers of Wheatears
at 10 P.M. at the lantern. Latest records of _Saxicolinæ_, 24th
October at Pentland Skerries; and next last there also on the 22d,
of Redstarts, both females; and on 26th of a Stonechat at N. Unst (?
Wheatear). At Isle of May on 5th, and at Fidra, "numbers all day" on
the island, of "Stonechats" (_vera_ at Isle of May? Wheatears? at
Fidra). A not very great or decided rush in September, principally
noticeable at Isle of May and Fidra, of "Stonechats."

Silviinæ.--Robins, Whitethroats.--_In Spring._--A great rush of Robins,
with fresh S.E. haze, at Pentland Skerries, on 19th April. "Good
numbers" at Isle of May, on 23d; also Whitethroats remained all night
at Isle of May, on 28th April. A rush took place of the latter at same
station on May 3d; "swarming" and culminating on 18th (one Willow
Wren--_Phylloscopus_--appearing with others on 19th). No Robins are;
noted in May anywhere.

_In Autumn._--A solitary Robin on 24th August at Cromarty (very likely
a local resident). A few odd birds in September. One Whitethroat and
three Robins, all on different dates, at Isle of May and Fidra; the
Whitethroat on the 1st at Isle of May. Rushes all in October, and
returns sent from the following stations, all of Robins:--N. Unst (1
Robin); Sumburgh Head, 1; Pentland Skerries, Isle of May, and Fidra.
Rushes mostly at Isle of May and Fidra about 24th to 29th, and winds
prevailing easterly and south-easterly. No records in November. A
solitary record in December of two Robins at N. Unst, and one on 7th
January 1887 at Dunnet Head. Migration of Robins scarcely discernible
in spring; and short, sharp, and decisive in October. Of Whitethroats
large. Local, _viz._--at Isle of May; indicated at N. Unst in spring;
and only one record in September at Isle of May.

Phylloscopinæ.--Goldcrest (or Gold-crested Wren), Chiffchaff, Willow
Wren, Wood Warbler.--_In Spring._--At Fidra numbers of Goldcrests
flying about on 24th March; wind S.W., light breeze. The only other
spring record of this species is on the 27th March at Pentland
Skerries--a single bird; mod. W., clear. This appears to have been a
sudden departure, probably general, but not coming much under notice.
Of the same species we have not another spring record.

Of Chiffchaff.--[The difficulty of determining Chiffchaffs and
Willow Wrens at any time, but more especially in autumn, even to an
expert, must in great measure militate against almost any records of
"Chiffchaff" at Isle of May. Yet there can be no doubt that it has
occurred there, certainly in October 1884; and on one or two more
occasions certain. There are many records of "Chiffchaff" at Isle of
May; but it is impossible to say which are correct identifications, and
which are really immature Willow Warblers. That the Chiffchaff does
occur is undoubted, but to what extent is yet uncertain. Henceforth,
until certainty can be arrived at, we will only mention Chiffchaffs in
inverted commas.--J. A. H.-B.]

"Chiffchaff"--a single record at Isle of May on 12th April, and Willow
Wren very numerous on 19th May. One "Chiffchaff" also noted on 5th May.

_In Autumn._--Goldcrests numerous on October 24th at Isle of May; and
numbers at Pentland Skerries, from 17th to 27th, all day long. Seems
to have been pretty general, as it is spoken of at Noss Head, also
on 24th; at Inchkeith, in small numbers, 7th, 8th, and 9th (light E.
breezes). Numbers all day on Fidra on 8th October, and also at Sumburgh
Head on 7th and on 20th, and at Girdleness on the 21st. Numerous at
Isle of May up to 30th.

"Chiffchaff"--a solitary record of one at Isle of May on 27th August.
A great number (rush) of Willow Warblers at Isle of May on 1st
September--light W., fog--along with Sedge Warblers. "Chiffchaff" is
also recorded from North Unst by Mr Charles Youngclause--light N.E.,
haze--a single bird. Numbers again of "Chiffchaffs" at Isle of May on
19th. Those who have their doubts about the occurrence in any number of
the Chiffchaff (_vera_) can read the above together with the entries of
_Willow Warbler_.

The migration of _Phylloscopinæ_ is thus compressed into October, with
one rush in September of Willow Warblers, which appears to have been
preceded by one example of "Chiffchaff" four days before. In preceding
spring very pronounced on 18th and 19th May at same station, Isle of
May, of Willow Warblers.

Accentorinæ.--Hedge Sparrows.--_Spring._--Only two records on 12th
April at Isle of May (resident all winter); and at Pentland Skerries
on 19th, two--S.E., haze; and on 18th May, at Isle of May, a brood of
young "now flying." _In Autumn_--only record at Pentland Skerries, one
seen all day--light S.W.; "seldom seen here."

Acrocephalinæ.--Sedge Warbler.--No spring notice. In Autumn--only two
in August at Isle of May. Sedge Warbler, one, on 20th--calm, clear; and
on 23d, two--light S.E. wind; but large numbers (in company with Willow
Warbler rush) at Isle of May on 2d September. The Willow Warbler rush
came on the 1st, the Sedge Warblers on the 2d; the former at 2 A.M. of
that day--light W., fog; the latter at 11 A.M. of the next day--light
W., and clear.

Troglodytidæ.--Wren.--Nests on Fidra. No spring records.

_In Autumn._--At Dunnet Head two--strong W. breeze--"young birds," on
31st August. And at Inchkeith, Firth of Forth, one caught on lantern,
wind light south. [The above are the only records in August,--what
connection appears again between N. of Caithness and Firth of
Forth?--J. A. H.-B.] No more movements on record till October. "Great
numbers" at Isle of May on 21st and 24th. No other records, except at
Pentland Skerries--a single bird on the 28th. Latest record, one bird
at N. Unst on 22d November.

The above notes tend to accentuate, along with many other parallelisms,
what we already consider the chief routes across Scotland (see last
Report, p. 23).

Motacillidæ.--Wagtails.--_In Spring._--Earliest record is on 24th March
of Wagtails at Isle of May, two seen--light to fresh S.E., and haze. A
few scattered records in April, on 13th and 19th, at Pentland Skerries.
One record at N. Ronaldshay on 6th May, and one on 20th at Pentland
Skerries. Nests found on Fidra, 15th June. Whereas in 1885 Report
Wagtails were recorded in every month except July, this season we find
all the following blank of records:--February, March, April, July,
November, and December (see Autumn).

_In Autumn._--Records bulk largest in September, both in number of
records (6) and bulk of numbers (rush of old and young on 3d and
again on 15th at Isle of May, and a few from 8th to 11th at Pentland
Skerries, and a few from 8th to 9th resting all day at N. Unst). Again
in October, a few (5) records of smaller numbers, 3d to 24th, at N.
Ronaldshay, Pentland Skerries, and Isle of May.

Motacillidæ.--_Anthinæ._--Pipits, OR "Mosscheepers," "Titlarks."--_In
Spring._--Earliest record at N. Unst, 7th March, of "Mosscheepers,"
N.W., fresh, and again one on 21st. On 20th and 23d March, Meadow
Pipits, a few at Isle of May, calm, clear, and S.E., fresh haze. A few
again at N. Unst on 23d, "Mosscheepers." No records in May or June. _In
July_--young "Mosscheepers" seen for first time on 6th. In August, on
the 27th, accessions to the numbers breeding on Isle of May, probably
the young hatched off and on wing. In September, accessions of both
Rock Pipits and Meadow Pipits by 15th, at Bell Rock, and Rock Pipits
numerous on Isle of May on 20th. Numerous to 29th October. No other
records.

Muscicapidæ.--Flycatchers.--_In Spring._--On 21st and 22d March Spotted
Flycatchers, single records at N. Unst. In April, the only record is on
19th at Pentland Skerries, when "a rush" is recorded. Fresh S.E., haze
(Pied Flycatchers), and on 21st May one ditto all day there.

_In Autumn._--Only one record in all of a single Spotted Flycatcher on
Fidra, on 7th. Light S.E., fog.

Hirundinidæ.--Swallows, Martins, Sand Martins.--_In Spring._--Many
records of arrivals in May and June, as follows:--

  May  2. N. Ronaldshay,    Flying W.,       2 Swallows,  Light W.C.
   "   3. Bell Rock,        Resting on rock, 1   do.,     S.S.E., Light,
   "   4. Isle of May,                       1 Martin,    S.W., Light.
   "   7. Pentland Skerries, "First seen,"   Swallows,    N.W., Haze.
   "   8. Isle of May,       "All day,"      1 Martin,    S.E.
   "  19.     Do.            A few,          1   do.,      "
   "  22. Dunnet Head,                       3 Swallows,  S.S.W.
   "  26. Cromarty,          "Arrived,"      3 do.,       Light W.
  June 5. Sumburgh Head,                                  Flight W.
   "   1. Isle of May,        First,         Swallow,     S.E., Light.
   "  12. Sumburgh Head,      "All day,"     3  do.,      S.S.E.

_In Autumn._--From 23d to 31st August a considerable movement (40
seen) at Isle of May on 30th; and on 2d September, "Swallows departed"
at Pentland Skerries. 1 Swallow seen at N. Unst on 23d August, and 6
Martins flying about top of cliffs for six days previous to 30th August
at Dunnet Head. A rush again at Isle of May on 27th, 28th, and 29th
September, especially on latter two dates. Wind S.E. on 29th, shifted
from W. Gale and clear day before. No later records.

Thus Autumn migration compressed into 30th August and 2d September, and
again, 28th and 29th September.

Fringillidæ.--Finches, Linnets, Redpoles, Siskins, Sparrows,
Chaffinches, "Grey Linnets," Tree Sparrows, Lesser Redpole.--_In
Spring._--1 Chaffinch at Pentland Skerries on 9th February. At Isle
of May "considerable numbers of Redpoles." "Lots died." S.E. to W.
In March a few single records of Chaffinch at Pentland Skerries and
Isle of May, and "numbers flying about all night" at Fidra. In April,
Siskins "first seen" at North Unst (a new species to the locality?) on
11th. At Isle of May, Chaffinches and Grey Linnets on 21st, and 2 to a
dozen pairs of Sparrows on 30th. At Pentland Skerries, on May 22d and
23d, Grey Linnets and Redpoles (? Twites).

_In Autumn._--Earliest, 26th August, Linnets, "young birds." Again,
Siskin (one) at N. Unst on 10th September. Strong W. wind. Linnets
at same place (Twites?), 18th, 20th, and 30th. A flock at Pentland
Skerries (Linnets, _vera_?), and Linnets at Fidra, 20th, 25th,
and 27th. Tree Sparrows on 15th at Isle of May. Greatest body of
_Fringillidæ_ in October, but on the whole, unusually light returns
anywhere. Tree Sparrows at Isle of May on 29th October. A few records
in November only at N. Unst and Pentland Skerries, of Linnets (?) and
Chaffinches.

One of the lightest schedules of _Fringillidæ_ we have had.

Emberizidæ.--Buntings, Snow Buntings, Common Buntings. Yellow
Hammers.--_In Spring._--Snow Buntings (2) at N. Unst; snow. In March
one ditto, 25th, and as late as April 19th one bird. [These are no
doubt late stragglers of last year's migration.--J. A. H.-B.] No more
records till September.

_In Autumn._--Large flock of Snow Buntings at Dunnet Head on 23d, and
small numbers at N. Unst on 19th, 20th, and 23d. The first seen at
Pentland Skerries this season was on the 1st October, fresh S. haze;
and four again on the 12th. Not numerous anywhere all this month.
Bulked largest in November and December; few at N. Unst; flocks at
Pentland Skerries on four dates of 4th to 17th, and a good number at
Isle of May on 6th. Flocks at Isle of May in December, and a few at
Sumburgh Head and Pentland Skerries. Yellow Hammer only once mentioned
at Isle of May on 10th February--a single bird. Common Bunting, single
birds, on 8th, 15th, and 27th March, at Pentland Skerries; once
in April at same station; once in July ditto; very few records in
September, same station; and in October, same station. None later, nor
at any other station.

Alaudidæ.--Larks.--Larks are entered under every month in the year
except July and August. They are least abundant in April, May, and
June--of these months in which they do occur in Spring,--and in
November and December. Numbers and rushes in September and October in
Autumn, and in January 1887. (Probably local movements.) Large numbers
in Spring 1886, on 15th February.

_In Spring._--They visited Isle of May, and stayed for some weeks in
February. Other slight records occur at Pentland Skerries and Bell Rock
same month. Considerable movements also all March at Isle of May and
Fidra.

_In Autumn._--Greatest numbers in September, on 25th to 29th, at
Sumburgh Head; and on 27th and 29th at Isle of May. Strong W. and S.W.
winds. A very heavy and very general rush is recorded during October
from each and all of the following stations:--Pentland Skerries, 16th;
Isle of May, 18th to 28th, culminating at latter date, preceded by
"great numbers" and "large numbers" on preceding dates; at Inchkeith
(9th, "flocks of") and at Fidra; 5th to 6th, and 14th to 17th,
"numbers" and "flocks all day." ["Wood Larks" are also mentioned by
name, but probably Pipits?--J. A. H.-B.] "Great flocks" again at Isle
of May on 22d.

Sturninæ.--Starlings.--_In Spring._--Absent from N. Unst between 1st
and 18th February. Returned to the rock again on 26th. Visit Isle of
May for some weeks in February, and remain in still larger numbers till
late in March, but decreasing again in April. Preparing to breed at
Fidra by 16th April. Breeds also at Isle of May, but cannot quite be
looked upon as a resident there. Nests found on Fidra in June. Flocks
of young every day at Isle of May in August. Rush did not take place
till 5th at Fidra, 28th at Isle of May. Seemed to be collecting for
some time previous to great rush on 28th. First autumn movement noticed
at N. Unst was not till 10th to 12th November; then seen daily. Last
record at Fidra on 25th November.

Corvidæ.--Rooks, Ravens, Crows, Hooded Crows, Jackdaws, Choughs
(or "Red-legged Crows").--_In Spring._--Hooded Crows and Ravens
occasionally seen at N. Unst--resident? Also Raven occasionally seen
there in March, April, September, October, and November, always one,
two, three, or four, and therefore probably birds breeding, or reared
on N. Unst main-island. In the same way Ravens occasionally seen at N.
Ronaldshay, Pentland Skerries, etc., can only be looked upon as "on
predatory quest intent."

"Black Crows" at N. Unst are probably Rooks, usually "flying south"
(if they come from E. turning south no doubt at Unst). We would like
to feel sure if these Black Crows are Carrion Crows or Rooks; but
"Rooks" by name are never mentioned at N. Unst. Indeed, "Rooks" by
name are only mentioned by reporters from Pentland Skerries and Fidra,
but "Black Crows" and "Crows" seem to have general application even at
Isle of May. We would like Rooks distinguished from Carrion Crows _or_
Corbie Crows. The terms "Crows" and "Black Crows" might mean either the
Carrion Crow or the Rook. [Those who have Johns' book will easily see
the difference.--J. A. H.-B.] Considerable movements all through the
year, extending from N. Unst southwards, of Hooded Crows and "Black
Crows" and Rooks. Jackdaws visited Isle of May in a fog in April, and
stayed all night of the 11th; and two had previously been seen on
March 19th. Noticed also occasionally at Fidra. Heaviest appearances
of _Corvidæ_ in October when migration was almost continuously heavy;
lightest, however, at N. Unst; heaviest at Pentland Skerries 5th to
11th October. Continuous but much lighter returns from N. Unst, N.
Ronaldshay, Pentland Skerries, and Fidra, in September, and curiously,
none from Isle of May. Light returns again from N. Unst and Fidra in
November, and only two from Pentland Skerries in December.

The uniformity of time in rushes of almost all species is singular this
season, October being the favoured month.

Cypselidæ.--Swifts.--["Swallow Swift" of Isle of May returns.]--In
spring or summer three "Swallow Swifts" at Isle of May, light, W.,
clear. No other records, except one on 3d May at same station.

_In Autumn._--Two Swifts at Pentland Skerries catching insects round
the tower; light, S.W.

Cuculidæ.--Cuckoo.--Only one notice at Isle of May on 18th May.

Picidæ.--Woodpeckers.--The Great Spotted Woodpeckers appeared in
considerable numbers this autumn along the eastern counties of
Scotland, in one or two cases reaching to the west counties south of
the Firth of Clyde. Almost all the specimens examined by us and by Mr
Evans of Edinburgh proved to be either old birds or birds with very
slight traces of immaturity. The only ones appearing at lighthouses
known to us was one sent us from Pentland Skerries, and one obtained at
Isle of May. It occurred also, as we are informed by Mr E. Service, in
the Solway district. This flight occurred in October, and I find the
Pentland Skerries bird bears date of 14th.[6]

[Footnote 6: Another is reported from N. Unst (see Diary from the
Stations). Besides these, we have records of the following, obligingly
sent us by Mr Geo. Sim of Aberdeen; and we obtained other records from
Fife; also one from Dumfries, from Mr Service of Maxwelltown, Dumfries.
We had hoped also to have added all the records of specimens examined
by Mr Evans; but up to date of going to press, these records have not
come to hand. It would have been better to have them all recorded in
one place.

  One; Monyruy, Parish of Longside, Aberdeen, 29th August 1886.
  One; Brucklay Castle, Parish of New Deer, Aberdeen, 30th October 1886.
  One; Drumtochty Castle, Kincardineshire, 29th November 1886.
  One; Drumtochty Castle, Kincardineshire, 27th February 1887.
]

Strigidæ.--Owls.--A very slight record, and entirely in October. One
"Large Grey Owl" at Pentland Skerries. "The first seen for a long
time; sat on the island." Three Short-Eared Owls on 8th, 9th. and
19th respectively, at Isle of May, and one Grey Owl again at Pentland
Skerries on 29th. "Flew across island."

Falconidæ.--"Hawks," Falcons, Kestrels, Sparrow Hawk, Merlin,
Peregrine, etc.--Records scattered more or less through the year as
usual, but March, August, and December contain none. October again has
largest number. Species noted are Peregrine ("or Falcon"), "Hawks,"
Kestrel (daily for a week at N. Unst), Sparrow Hawk, Large Hawks (Bell
Rock, 19th October); "flying W.," etc.

Of Cormorants we have spring records in April at N. Unst, daily
fishing. Daily records at same place in September between 1st and
9th, about four or five pairs. One pair breeds regularly, and rears
young at N. Unst (noted 11th July 1886). Also at Fidra--six birds to
twelve--from 6th to 29th (three records).

We have no notes on the Green Cormorant or Shag or Crested Cormorant
from any stations.

[Sidenote: =To the Reporters.=]

Pelecanidæ.--Solan Goose or Gannet, Cormorant, Shag, Scart, etc.--This
year we give a day-by-day return of Solan Geese seen at N. Unst during
September and October. We would like to complete a year's observations
of the movements of this bird at the following stations:--N. Unst,
Bell Rock, Pentland Skerries, Cape Wrath, Butt of Lewis, Monach Isles,
Barra Head, and Ailsa Craig, and Turnberry on the coast of Ayrshire. We
would also like daily returns made at Skerryvore or Dhuheartach [all
negative evidence being carefully entered, such as "none seen" on such
and such a date or succession of dates], and also at Rona, north of
Raasay. A separate schedule or more might be devoted to Gannet or Solan
Goose alone for every day in the year, noting carefully the direction
of flight of flocks or individuals, or how employed. If we had such a
series complete, we believe much light might be thrown upon migrations
of fish in combination with work going on at Lochbuie in Mull, at the
Marine Institute there.

           Solan
    1886.  Geese
  Sept.  6,  6,       11 A.M.,     S.S.E.,             Fog,       Fishing
                       disappeared  fresh                          round
                       1 P.M.,      breezes,                       Rock.
    "    6,  2,       6 P.M.,        Do. do.,          Haze,        Do.  do.
    "    7,  6,       All day,     S.W., strong        Showers,   Flying about
                                    breezes,                       and fishing.
    "    8,  3,       Do.,         S., strong          Haze,        Do.  do.
                                    breezes,
    "    9,  5,       Do.,         S.W., strong        Clear,       Do.  do.
                                    breezes,
    "    9,  Do.,     Afternoon,   S.S.E., gale,       Rain,      Disappeared 5 P.M.
    "   10,  2,       5 A.M.,      W., gale,           Showers,   Seen till mid-day,
                                                                   again in afternoon.
    "   11, 14,       All day,     S.W. & S. breezes,    Do.,     Flying about.
    "   13,  3,       Do.,         N.E. fresh breezes,   Do.,       Do.
    "   14,  2,       5 P.M.,      N., strong breezes  Rain,      Flying past Rock.
    "   15,  3,       10 A.M.,     N.W., fresh         Clear,     Flying about and
                                    breezes,                       fishing.
    "   16,  1,       Noon,        W., strong                     Swimming about
                                    breezes,             Do.,      Rock.
    "   17,  3,       11 P.M.,     W.N.W., fresh       Haze,     Flying about
                                                                  Rock.
    "   18, Numerous, All day,     N.E. light breezes, Clear,       Do.  do.
    "   19,  6,       5 P.M.,      W., light airs,       Do.,       Do.  do.
    "   20, 20,       Noon,        N., fresh breezes,    Do.,       Do.  do.
    "   23,  3,       5 P.M.,      N., fresh breezes,  Haze,        Do.  do.
    "   24, 16,       All day,     N.W., light airs,   Clear,       Do.  do.
    "   25, 12,       5 P.M.,      S., light breezes,  Haze,        Do.  do.
    "   26, Numerous, All day,       Do. do.,            Do.,       Do.  do.
  Oct.   1,  3,       10 A.M. to   Variable, strong    Rain.      Flying about
                       1 P.M.,      breezes,                       the Rock.
   "     7,  1,       8 A.M. to    S.S.E., light       Haze       Flying about.
                       10 A.M.,     breezes,            and fog,
   "     7,  6,       10 A.M. to     Do. do.,          Haze and   Flying about
                       1 P.M.,                          rain.      and fishing.
   "    11,  14,      8 A.M.,      N.W., light         Clear,     In a flock flying
                                                        breezes,   past east.
   "    13  Flocks of Throughout   Variable winds,     Clear and  Flying past
      & 14,  2 to 12,  the dates,                       showers,   eastward.
   "    19,  5,       4 P.M.,      E., light breezes,  Clear,     Fishing about.
   "    21,  3,       All day,     S.S.E., gale,       Rain,      Fishing all day.
   "    24,  1,       9 A.M. to    S.W., strong        Haze,      Flying about.
                       11 A.M.,     breezes,
   "    25,  2,       8 A.M. to      Do. do.,            Do.,     Fishing.
                       1 P.M.,

                                        North Unst, Burrafiord, Lerwick,
                                          Shetland, _21st February 1887_.

  Sir,--I beg to inform you that since answering your note regarding
  Solan Geese when on shore two Solan Geese were seen here on the
  12th inst.; also one on the 19th flying about. A large flock of
  Kittiwakes on 12th passed; direction from S.W. going N.E. This is
  a rare occurrence, for I know not of any person having seen any
  of these two species so early in the year. Since writing on 27th
  twenty-four Solan Geese seen very busy fishing for about two hours.
  We have been thinking herring must be close by us, this causing
  Solan Geese coming so soon this year. Can't vouch for the truth of
  this, for we could not make out whether herrings or small fish.--J.
  N.

Of records of Solan Geese at other times and localities, as usual,
movements commenced towards the close of March (we have one early
record of three at Pentland Skerries on 5th, flying east).

We do not enter into detail, as we would prefer to give a full schedule
from each station as indicated above. We add this note here however;
Latest seen at Fidra was on 20th, when the note occurs "disappeared."
On 14th October, "one young bird; not another to be seen;" and on 10th
October, "Solans visibly scarcer," at Fidra.

Of Herons, a few scattered records; not of much service we suspect to
our Migration Committee.

Anatidæ.--Ducks, Geese, Eider Ducks, Teal, Widgeon, Shieldrake, Wild
Duck, Barnicle Geese, Swans, Brent Geese.--_In Spring_ flocks, or large
flocks, of Barnicle Geese are frequently noted at Cromarty, presumably
the same flocks daily. (Barnicle is here undoubtedly applied wrongly
to the Brent Geese, or "Brants," which are abundant in the Cromarty
Firth.) Thus on 19th, 25th, and 26th February, and from 4th to 18th
March, a "large flock" is almost daily noted; and thereafter none are
again noted till November 24, when a flock again recorded, and two
flocks on 25th and 27th December, all at the same place.

_Eider Duck._--Odd birds noted off N. Unst in February 5th and 18th,
and March 23d and 26th--winds different directions; and a flock of
nine at Isle of May on 18th April. Odd records in May and June at
N. Ronaldshay and at Fidra, probably merely local movements. _In
Autumn._--Recorded as "making their appearance by the 5th September
at N. Ronaldshay; and large flocks by the 11th September at Pentland
Skerries. Flocks all day on several dates in October at N. Unst, and
Fidra, &c."

Teal are noted occasionally at Pentland Skerries in March on 1st and
2d. _Widgeon_ rarely noted: once in March at Isle of May, and once in
October at Fidra. _Shieldrake_ once noted at Noss Head, and once on
15th November on Fidra.

Wild Swans are noted on 12th April, and four on 25th at N. Ronaldshay;
and thirty on one occasion at Sumburgh Head.

_Note._--A most remarkable assemblage of Eider Ducks took place off the
west shore of Harris, as seen and reported to me by James Cowan, Esq.,
M.P. He writes, under date of 18th March 1887: "Last year, owing to the
easterly winds, we had not less than 3000 Eiders within four miles of
our cottage, on the west coast of Harris; and the year before there was
not one."

Columbidæ.--Pigeons, Doves.--Rock Dove, Wood Pigeon, Turtle Dove.--A
Turtle Dove was obtained at Isle of May on 31st May 1886; wind light
S.E., and haze. An addition to the Isle of May list and collection; at
present at Dunipace House.

A single record of a Wood Pigeon, "seldom seen here," at Pentland
Skerries on 18th June; and another at same place on 7th October,
"flying west; rare "--fresh, variable, and haze.

A single record of Rock Pigeons (a flock) on 20th at Pentland Skerries,
and the remark, "seldom seen." There were twenty in the flock.

Rallidæ.--Corncrake, Water Rail, etc.--Heard first time at Pentland
Skerries on 19th May, and at Cromarty on 25th. Above are the only
records of any of the Rails.

Charadriadæ.--Plover, Golden Plover, Lapwing, Dotterel, Ringed Dotterel
or Ringed Plover, Oyster-Catcher or Sea Pie, Grey Plover, Golden
Plover.--_In Spring._--Movements scarce; in February (one record on
25th at Pentland Skerries); in March (one record at same).

_In Autumn._--No great movements recorded. First seen at N. Ronaldshay
August 25; spoken of as "arrived." Very few records in September,
October, or November. Slight increase in December at Pentland Skerries
only. Of Oyster-Catchers or Sea Pies rather more frequent returns, but
bulking only in September and October. _In Spring._--Lapwings noted
considerably in March at many stations from N. Unst, Pentland Skerries,
Bell Rock, Isle of May, and Fidra.

_In Autumn._--Slight movements only in September and October. Ringed
Dotterel _or_ Ringed Plover--one in September at Pentland Skerries, and
one at same place all day on 3d December.

Scolopacidæ.--Woodcock, Snipe, Curlew, Jack Snipe.--Of Woodcock no
spring movement observed. No records of Woodcock at all until October.
First seen at Pentland Skerries; two all day on 5th October; then one
killed at light on 7th, and a rush on 10th. Then also at N. Ronaldshay
one bird seen on 6th; and at Girdleness, Aberdeen, and at Isle of
May, from 6th on till 28th, varying numbers--eight shot on 18th, four
or five on 20th; "numbers" seen on 24th--wind N.E., veering to S.E.;
haze at night. Some (two shot) on 28th. Latest record, one Woodcock at
Dunnet Head on 14th November, and two at Pentland Skerries on 1st and
12th November. In Stirlingshire thirty-five shot one day in Torwood,
and twenty-eight in Touch Woods. Unusually abundant this autumn. The
Woodcocks shot at Torwood on the 20th November came into the country
almost certainly at the time of the October rush, and remained there
and throughout Stirlingshire for several weeks, during which time many
were killed. On the West Coast a friend and myself bagged 33½ couples
in seven days' shooting. We had a _blizzard_ of snow and wind on
Monday, January 17th. We left on 21st; and we heard afterwards that not
a Cock was to be seen on and after the 24th January 1887.

_Snipe._--A few scattered spring records. No mention again till
September, and then decidedly very few all over. Decidedly scarce this
autumn. In the West of Scotland (Ardnamurchan), where Woodcock were so
plentiful, Snipe were unusually scarce. Only four seen one day, where
usually seven or eight couple can be shot in an hour or two.

Records of Curlews few and far between; and none of any special
interest, being mostly local movements.

For comparison we here give a table similar to that in last report (p.
33).

                     1886.                                 1887.
                     July.  Aug.  Sept.  Oct.  Nov.  Dec.  Jan.

  Curlew,   Entries--  3     5      7     3     0     5      0
  Woodcock,            0     0      0    14     3     0      0
  Snipe,               0     0      1     1     2     2      1
  Jacksnipe,           0     0      1     1     0     0      0

The stations returning in the order of heaviest schedules are--

                   1886.                                       1887.
                   July.   Aug.       Sept.   Oct.  Nov.  Dec. Jan. Totals.
  Pentland Skerries  3       2          4       4     4    7     0     24
  Isle of May,       0       0          0       8     0    0     0      8
  N. Unst,           0       2          1       1     0    0     0      4
  Girdleness,        0       0          1       2     0    0     0      3
  N. Ronaldshay,     0  2 (curlew)      0       0     0    0     0      2
  Dunnet Head,       0       0          0       0     0    0     1      1
  Fidra,             0       0     1 (curlew)   0     0    0     0      1
                    --- ---------- ----------  ---   ---  ---   ---   ----
       Per Month,    3       6          7      15     4    7     1     43

Thus it will be seen that the comparative strength of the waves are
approximately given from each station, Pentland Skerries leading
with twenty-four, and Isle of May following with eight, etc.; also,
the totals under each month show the rush to have been distinctly in
October with fifteen,[7] September and December each with seven. This
same system, carried out for each species of bird, appears to us to
suggest a pretty fair way of reducing our light reports to system;
and further tabular comparison is also suggested as to duration of
migration, and weather notes in last report, p. 34, which need not be
repeated here at present.

[Footnote 7: This is borne out almost with all species this season. A
concentrated rush in October.]

Of Redshanks, Sandpipers, Dunlins, there are very few returns; and
only one Dunlin at Pentland Skerries, where they breed, on 27th April.
Redshanks appeared at N. Ronaldshay on 12th August. Numbers towards
end of September at Pentland Skerries; a few in October, with a number
of Purple Sandpipers. A Common Sandpiper at N. Unst on 23d October.
Redshanks on 3d December at Pentland Skerries, and number of Purple
Sandpipers all day on 19th December.

Laridæ.--Gulls, Terns, Skuas, etc., Kittiwake, Lesser Tern, "Dirty
Allen," Black Backed Gull.--The same remarks hold good under Gulls of
sorts. The spring and summer records are not of special interest; but
vast movements took place in September. "Immense flocks" of Gulls;
"numerous flocks" of Kittiwakes and Gulls; Skuas and Terns "every
day." Thirty-seven large Gulls passed Girdleness flying south on 15th
September; but the "largest flock ever seen" at Fidra was on 14th.
Curiously enough there are _no records_ made of movements at Isle of
May; but at Pentland Skerries, and again at Fidra, very full notice
is taken. No records in November. Only one in December at Pentland
Skerries.

Procellariidæ.--Petrels, Stormy Petrel.--The Stormy Petrels often
appear at lanterns at night in midsummer, but this is in all
probability merely a local movement. Being nocturnal in their habits,
and abroad only at night, certain lighthouses lure them to their light
more readily than others, owing to proximity to breeding stations or
lines of flight to and from their feeding grounds. Their breeding
season being very late in the year, the months of August and September
bulk largest, but movements commence usually in June; July, however,
is often less marked as a month for their movements, except in
exceptionably hazy weather for that month.

This season records are not numerous; _but_, what we have not recorded
before, a rush of Stormy Petrels took place at N. Unst, from the 23d to
28th August, "nightly"--winds variable and overcast; striking lantern
"continuously." When, perhaps, we know all the exact minutiæ of the
breeding distribution, and area of the wandering of birds generally,
and of Petrels in the present case, then we may be able to account
for such a rush as related above. Meanwhile we think it safest to
believe--without theorising--that this unusual appearance was a local
movement, caused by unity of circumstances, affecting a large local
colony in the neighbourhood of the N. Unst lighthouse.

Alcidæ.--Auks, Razorbills, Guillemots, Puffins, "Marrots," "Tysties"
(Black Guillemots).--_In Spring._--On February 19th a flock of Black
Guillemots ("Tysties") "first arrived, very early," at N. Unst; and at
same place a year afterwards--_viz._, in January 31, 1887, we find,
under "Marrot"--"flocks of, flying past," W. to E.; "_rarely_ been seen
so soon." (Note in this connection our extremely early and fine spring
of 1877, until checked slightly, between March 10th and 17th, by the
severe snowfall and keen frosts.)

Returning to 1886:--By March 12th to 22d, numbers of Guillemots and
Razorbills rushing by thousands on the latter date at Isle of May,
the only station sending returns for March. In April, abundance of
Razorbills and Puffins on the rocks by 14th at N. Unst; but the note
(1886) is given on date of 7th, "not so early as last year." Puffins
arrived "after; N.W., light breezes. First arrival later than usual."
By the 22d 160 Puffins (estimate) settled down to breed on the rocks as
usual at N. Unst.

At Pentland Skerries, Puffins arrived on the 11th April; and Common
Guillemots were seen passing east on the 23d--mod. S.E. wind. At Isle
of May, a large number on 6th April and on 12th. By the 18th May,
Puffins "are now laying" at Isle of May. By 11th June, young were first
seen at N. Unst of Puffins and "Tysties." No records in August.

On September 2d, all Marrots, Razorbills, and Puffins left the rock
at N. Unst; but on October 18th, Tysties re-appeared (three in
number)--with N.N.E., strong breeze--and stayed six days. No other
records.

Columbidæ.--Divers--Great Northern, Black-throated, and Red-necked
Diver.--No account taken.

                            ==============




                        EAST COAST OF ENGLAND.


Schedules were issued to thirty-six stations, lighthouses, and
light-vessels on the East Coast of England, and returns have been
received from thirty. The total number of schedules sent in is
seventy-seven from all sources, and the greatest number from any single
station, ten from Mr Thomas H. Cutting, of the Farn Lighthouse.

Wings have been forwarded, of birds killed against the lanterns, from
the Leman and Ower L.V., Shipwash L.V., Swin Middle L.V., Nore L.V.,
Spurn L.V., Spurn L.H., Llyn Wells L.V., Hasbro' L.V., South Sand Head
L.V., and Coquet L.H. altogether thirty-five wings have been forwarded
for identification. It is much to be regretted that more have not been
sent.

The East Coast stations included in this report are:--

  Longstone L.H.        Thomas O. Hall.
  Farn, Inner, L.H.     Thomas H. Cutting.
  Coquet Island L.H.    William Evans.
  Tees, 5 Buoy L.V.     Henry Harbord.
  Tees Breakwater L.H.  _Nil._
  Whitby High L.H.      John Odgers.
  Flamborough L.H.      C. Hood.
  Spurn L.H.            James B. Smith.
  Spurn L.V.            The Principal (no signature).
  Outer Dowsing L.V.    W. Stock and A. Bearling.
  Inner Dowsing L.V.    William King.
  Llyn Wells L.V.       T. Ditcham.
  Dudgeon L.V.          J. F. Warder and J. W. Harrison.
  Hasbro' L.V.          John Nicholas and B. V. Darnell.
  Hasbro' L.H.          _Nil._
  Hunstanton L.H.       W. Westmoreland.
  Cromer L.H.           C. B. Comber.
  Winterton L.H.        John Watson.
  Leman and Ower L.H.   John Bowen.
  Newarp L.V.           _Nil._
  Cockle L.V.           C. Perfrement and E. Cole.
  Orfordness L.H.       _Nil._
  Corton L.V.           _Nil._
  Languard Point L.H.   Owen Boyle.
  Shipwash L.V.         William Barker and D. Dale.
  Galloper L.V.         Francis H. Page.
  Kentish Knock L.V.    W. Dorney and W. R. Carter.
  Swin Middle L.V.      S. Pender and Thomas Barrett.
  Tongue L.V.           _Nil._
  Nore L.V.             R. Littlewood.
  Goodwin L.V.          Thomas Rees.
  Gull L.V.             Francis Harvey and J. Jenkins.
  South Sand Head L.V.  F. G. Foreman.
  East Side L.V.        The Principal (no signature).
  Varne L.V.            J. Jacobs.
  Hanois L.H., Guernsey Chas. Williams and Geo. Freeman.

Schedules, letters of instruction, and linen-lined envelopes, with
directions and labels, for bird wings, were sent to six stations on the
South East Coast, and only one schedule has been received in return
from the Nab L.V.

  Dungeness L.H.                       _Nil._
  Royal Sovereign Shoals L.V.          _Nil._
  Beachy Head L.H.                     _Nil._
  Owers L.V.                           _Nil._
  St Katherine's L.H., Isle of Wight,  _Nil._
  Nab L.V.                             F. Conconi.

Independent assistance has been received from Messrs T. H. Nelson,
Redcar; C. Donald Thompson, Seaton-Carew; and E. B. Garbutt; Matthew
Bailey, Flamborough; W. Eagle Clarke, H. B. Hewetson, and Philip
Lawton, Spurn; Thomas Winson, Spurn Head; G. Smith, Arthur Patterson,
and Benjamin Dye, Yarmouth; J. H. Gurney, Jun., North-East Norfolk;
O. V. Aplin, Norfolk and Lincolnshire Coast; also from G. H. Caton
Haigh, Grainsby Hall; notes from Tetney and N.E. Lincolnshire; and J.
B. Whitlock, Nottingham; and on the South Coast from the Rev. H. A.
Macpherson.

Notes also bearing on migration have been utilised from the
_Zoologist_, _Naturalist_, and _Field_ newspapers.


Separate Notes on each Species.

Turdus Viscivorus, Mistletoe Thrush.--Autumn: Farn L.H., September
1st, two; Cockle L.V., October 29th, 8 A.M., one struck. Cromer L.H.,
November 2d, sunrise, one killed. Varne L.V., 9th, 11 A.M., sixty from
S.E. to N.W. Languard L.H., 12th, some.

T. Musicus, Song Thrush.--Spring; Hanois L.H., Guernsey, March 1st, 9
P.M., several striking. Longstone L.H., April 20th, 2 P.M., E., one.
Farn L.H., April 1st to 15th, several, also Blackbirds.

Autumn: First at Llyn Wells L.V., August 11th, three. Farn L.H.,
September 8th, and sparingly at several stations in September. On the
4th, 5th, and 6th of October, an immense rush more or less observed
at Farn Islands, Coquet Island, Whitby, Spurn, Outer Dowsing, Llyn
Wells, Cromer, Hasbro' L.V., Kentish Knock (October 2d to 8th), Swin
Middle, and Nore,--that is, covering the whole coast of eastern England
from the Farn Islands to the mouth of the Thames. Conditions of
arrival--easterly winds, fogs, and hazy weather. There was a second but
smaller arrival from the 19th to 30th October, also scattered notices
from various stations to November 27th.

T. Iliacus, Redwing.--Spring: Longstone L.H., April 25th, S.E. light,
some round lantern all the morning; at the same date Trent Lock, Notts,
last flock seen flying N. (F. B. W.).

Autumn: Farn L.H., September 8th, three. The main body came with the
great rush of Thrushes from the 2d to the 8th of October. Were first
observed inland near Harrogate, Yorkshire, on the 10th, and at Trent
Lock on the 16th of October. Large numbers of various _Turdidæ_, with
Larks, Chaffinches, Linnets, and others, are recorded as observed at
various stations, moving hurriedly up the coast on the approach of
snow, March 2d and 3d, 1886; also between December 27th, 1886, and
January 6th, 1887.

T. Pilaris, Fieldfare.--Spring: Tees L.V., March 13th to 19th,
Fieldfares to S.E. Farn L.H., April 28th, E.N.E. (6), eleven. Longstone
L.H., same dates, 12 to 1 A.M.; many round lantern; wind flew to N.E.,
and birds left.

Autumn: Have been generally much scarcer than in the winter of 1885-86.
Outer Dowsing L.V., July 8th, one seen flying to N.W. Mr G. Hunt saw
a single bird at Somerton, Norfolk, on September 2d. Llyn Wells L.V.,
September 27th, all night, and Farn L.H. on 30th, one. Coquet L.H.,
October 4th, rush with Blackbirds and others. They are recorded also
at the same date in the Newcastle Weekly Chronicle of October 23d;
seen in North-East Lancashire. Scattered notices throughout October. A
slight rush is indicated at Spurn on November 1st, and Cromer on the
2d. Coquet Island, November 20th, Fieldfares and Blackbirds; and at
Farn L.H. at intervals to January 9th, 1887.

T. Merula, Blackbird.--Spring: Farn L.H., April 1st to 15th, and onward
to the 1st of May.

Autumn: Farn L.H., July 13th, three. 25th, several young hens. Llyn
Wells, August 3d, one. Farn L.H., 22d, E.N.E., many; 27th, and
September 1st, many. A heavy rush, October 4th to 8th, at the Farn
Islands, Coquet Island, Spurn, to mouth of Thames. Nore L.V., October
6th, hen came to side of ship tired out, and, falling in the sea, was
drowned. At intervals in October at several stations, chiefly from 18th
to 20th. Farn L.H., November 15th, thirteen old cocks; a few Blackbirds
also up to February 23d, 1887, at same station.

T. Torquatus, Ring-Ouzel.--Spring: Farn L.H., April 19th, two; 20th,
five.

Autumn: Languard L.H., August 12th, 5.30 A.M., one. A few young males
during the first week in October on Lincolnshire coast. Farn L.H.,
October 4th, two.

Saxicola Œnanthe, Wheatear.--Spring: Farn L.H., April 1st to 15th.
26th, rush. Longstone L.H., April 2d, 8.30 P.M., S., large numbers
round light. 25th, round light all morning. 28th, many, with Redstarts
and Fieldfares round lantern 12 to 1 A.M., wind shifted to N.E., and
birds left; are also recorded, Flambro', April 2d; Tees L.V., Outer
Dowsing L.V., and Trent Lock, Notts, April 3d; Yarmouth, April 6th; and
Hunstanton L.H., and Hanois L.H., Guernsey, 3 A.M., April 20th.

Autumn: Return migration from July 25th. Rushes, August 27th to
September 3d, and October, first week. Hanois L.H., September 3d, all
night, several dozen killed. Last occurrences, Farn L.H., Trent Lock,
and Tetney "fitties," Lincolnshire coast, all on October 16th.

Pratincola Rubetra, Whinchat.--Longstone L.H., April 25th, one; wing
from Leman and Ower L.V., May 13th. _P. rubicola_, Stonechat, was
plentiful in the Lincolnshire and Norfolk districts throughout November.

Ruticilla Phœnicurus, Redstart.--Farn L.H., April 24th, E.S.E.,
several. Hunstanton L.H., April 25th, one female. Longstone L.H., Farn
Islands, April 27th, one. 28th, flight with Wheatears and Fieldfares
round lantern from 12 to 1 A.M. Flambro', April 26th, and on May
13th, 14th, and 15th, great many, with a N.E. wind, along with Pied
Flycatchers.

Autumn: Spurn, August 7th, Redstarts and Wheatears returning up coast.
Cley, Norfolk, September 13th. Hasbro' L.V., September 19th (wing
and tail sent). Cromer, October 5th, 2.45 A.M., one female. Hanois
L.H., October 26th, 2 P.M., N.E., a few on rocks. This last entry not
improbably has reference to the Black Redstart, _R. titys_.

Cyanecula? Bluethroat.--Spurn, September 14th, 11 A.M., N.E., strong,
one young bird. This was seen by Mr Winson, who knows the bird well.

Erithacus Rubecula, Redbreast.--Spring: Longstone L.H., April 20th, 2
P.M., two.

Autumn: First at Whitby L.H., August 16th. Coquet L.H., September
16th, and Swin Middle L.V., 29th, 8 A.M., N.E., one on each occasion.
A heavy rush is indicated between the 5th and 7th of October at the
Farn Islands, Coquet Island, Teesmouth, Spurn, Outer and Inner Dowsing
L.V.'s, and Hasbro' L.V., wind N.E. for days; again on the 16th at Farn
L.H., Teesmouth, and Inner Dowsing L.V., 18th and 19th at Spurn, and
19th Inner Dowsing and Hasbro' L.V.'s (twenty on board); also at Farn
L.H. on 25th, 26th, and 30th October, great many.

Sylvia Rufa and S. Curruca, Common Whitethroat and Lesser
Whitethroat.--Spring: Hunstanton, April 11th, 3 A.M., three Lesser
Whitethroats on lantern.

Autumn: Longstone L.H., September 1st, S.W., one killed. 25th, one
found dead. Hunstanton L.H., 25th, one Common Whitethroat killed. _S.
atricapilla_, Blackcap, Longstone L.H., April 25th, one. Languard,
October 11th, 2 to 3 P.M., four to E. at sunset. Spurn, October 19th,
one shot.

Regulus Cristatus, Golden-Crested Wren.--Is recorded at sixteen
stations. Hanois L.H., Guernsey, September 22d, 11 P.M., some killed,
others settling on windows. Between the 5th and 9th of October a
general rush, covering the East Coast between the Farn and the Channel
Islands, was observed, in greater or less numbers, at the two Farn
Island lighthouses, Redcar, Coquet Island, Flamborough, Spurn, Outer
Dowsing, and Hasbro' L.V.'s (on 6th, thirty in day from E.N.E. to
W.S.W.), and Hanois L.H. Again a second arrival, Tees, October 16th;
Redcar, 19th; Spurn, 16th, 18th, 19th; Cromer, 18th, 2.30, N.E., rain;
and Hunstanton, 21st. A third flight between October 26th and 31st at
the Farn Islands, Durham Coast, Whitby, Outer Dowsing, Great Cotes
(26th, swarming), Hanois L.H., 31st, 12 P.M., Goldcrests, Blackbirds,
and Starlings flying round all the evening, and striking top of lantern
and glass; wind light, variable, with rain.

Phylloscopus Trochilus, Willow Wren.--Longstone, April 23d, S. to
S.S.E., light, one.

Autumn: Great Cotes, July 24th, on the move. Longstone L.H., August
23d, S.E., two. September 3d, one found dead. Spurn, August 15th to
September 6th, great numbers to S. October 19th, final rush; Cromer,
November 25th, two seen near lighthouse.

Acrocephalus Schœnobænus, Sedge Warbler.--Leman and Ower L.V., May
24th, wing sent. Spurn L.H., August 5th, 2 A.M., S.W. (3), one killed.
Coquet L.H., October 5th, killed, wing sent.

Accentor Modularis, Hedge Sparrow.--Dudgeon L.V., March 22d, 1886, some
N.W. to S.E., with Larks, Chaffinches, and Starlings. October 6th,
forty to N.N.W. Hasbro' L.V., 31st, 3 P.M., flock roosted on board all
night.

Acredula ? Long-tailed Titmouse.--Languard L.H., October 17th, one.
_Parus ?_ Titmouse.--Inner Dowsing L.V., October 17th, 10.30 A.M., one
"Tomtit," E. to W. Spurn, November 1st, _P. major_ and _cæruleus_,
very common. The former has been exceedingly plentiful in North-East
Lincolnshire in the winter.

Troglodytes Parvulus, Common Wren.--Spring, 1886: Outer Dowsing L.V.,
March 24th, one caught on deck. May 19th, three to W. Flamborough L.H.,
May 17th, 10.30 P.M., S.W., seven killed.

Autumn: Languard L.H., August 22d, four on premises all day. Cromer
L.H. and Cockle L.V., 23d, one each. Leman and Ower L.V., 24th, 3 to 4
A.M., fog, one killed. Spurn, October 8th, many; 19th, same. Farn L.H.,
28th, Wrens and Robins.

Motacilla Lugubris, Pied Wagtail.--Spring, 1886: Hanois L.H., March
14th, 3 A.M., E., several. Great Cotes, 20th, many. Whitby L.H., 20th,
four. Yarmouth, 21st, several pairs. Tees L.V., 30th, great many to N.W.

Autumn: Whitby L.H., September 2d, 3d, and 4th, many, with Titlarks and
Stonechats to S. Hanois L.H., October 31st, 8 P.M., several. _M. raii_,
Yellow Wagtail.--Yarmouth, April 7th.

Anthus Pratensis, Meadow Pipit.--Outer Dowsing L.V., March 24th, 1886,
one Titlark caught. Whitby L.H., September 2d, 3d, and 4th, Titlarks
to S. Cockle L.V., October 4th, one. Dudgeon L.V., January 7th, 1887,
Titlarks all night; five caught. _A. obscurus_, Rock Pipit.--Hasbro'
L.V., September 3d, 11 P.M. (wing sent). Farn L.H., October 31st, many
about island; November 21st, great many, with Pipits, all day.

Lanius Excubitor, Great Grey Shrike.--Spurn, October 25th, two or three
seen about this date. Farn L.H., October 26th, 3 P.M., one seen, with
small bird in bill. Spurn, November 1st, one shot, another seen. 27th,
a Great Grey Shrike was shot to-day on Butterwick Common, near Brigg,
which at the time was eating a Snipe (probably a wounded bird). _L.
collurio_, Red-Backed Shrike.--Languard L.H., August 15th, noon, one
seen. Hasbro' L.V., August 27th, 11 P.M., one caught on deck (wing
sent).

Muscicapa Atricapilla, Pied Flycatcher.--Flamborough, April 26th, Pied
Flycatcher; May 13th, 14th, and 15th, N.E., great many, with Redstarts.

Autumn: Mr Gurney informs me that Colonel Fielden observed a migration
of Pied Flycatchers at Wells, on the Norfolk coast, on September 3d.
Donna Nook, Lincolnshire coast, October 12th, one seen (J. C.).

Hirundo Rustica, Swallow.--First observed, Whitby and Hunstanton
L.H.'s, on April 13th; Yarmouth and Hanois L.H., Guernsey, on 14th;
in no numbers anywhere till the end of the month. Hanois L.H., April
22d, all day in two's and three's, sometimes six or seven, low on water
to N.E. and E. Leman and Ower L.V., 30th, 9 A.M. to noon, great many
to S.W. Tees L.V., April 27th, six to N.W.; May 16th, 17th, 18th, and
21st, great numbers, two and three together to N.W. Farn L.H., 19th
and 20th, rush. Hunstanton, May 4th, rush to S.W. all day. Swin Middle
L.V., July 11th, 12th, 14th, 15th, and 16th, numbers from E. to W.; on
14th, five flocks of about twenty each between 3 and 4 A.M.

Autumn: Hanois L.H., September 15th, 16th, and 17th, rush to S. about
mid-day, and on 20th at sunset; and 21st during morning, to S.W.
and S., as many as twenty-five together. Swin Middle L.V., October
2d and 3d, 7.30 to noon, at intervals to S.E.; and at Hunstanton
on October 1st, 3d, and 4th. Nab L.V. (Channel), October 1st, at
intervals daylight till dusk, twenty together, to S., wind S. to S.E.
(4). Languard L.H., October 3d.--Mr Owen Boyle writes: "Thousands of
Swallows congregated here at 6.45 A.M., pitched on the lantern top and
gallery rails; every available spot was covered with them. Thousands
also were on the wing all round the lighthouse. The birds pitched were
all quite silent. At 8.10 A.M. they all rose in a mass, and went to the
S.W.; not one was to be seen at noon." Trent Lock, October 3d, hundreds
congregating on telegraph wires. Kentish Knock L.V., October 1st,
several to S. Hanois L.H., October 6th, great many; last seen, Spurn,
November 1st, one. Lewes, Sussex, 8th, some to W. From September 30th
to October 7th pressure system cyclonic; type first south-westerly and
afterwards south-easterly.

Chelidon Urbica, Martin.--Cromer L.H., May 15th, first. Autumn: South
Sand Head L.V., September 24th, twenty to thirty Martins; 29th, twenty
Martins to N.W. Farn L.H., October 5th, one flying round tower.
Great Cotes, November 15th, last seen, one. _Cotile riparia_, Sand
Martin.--On the 8th of August I saw between six and seven hundred
perched together on the telegraph wires by the turnpike side near
Tamworth.

Ligurinus Chloris, Greenfinch.--Swin Middle L.V., October 18th, during
day, with others at intervals to the W. Farn L.H., January 3d to 8th,
seven. _Carduelis elegans_, Goldfinch.--Hanois L.H., September 24th,
N.E., 9 A.M., large flock to S.E.

Passer Domesticus, Common Sparrow.--Is recorded at eleven stations,
but at none north of Spurn. Leman and Ower L.V., August 30th, great
many on board. There was a great rush between the 3d and 7th of October
observed at Spurn L.V.; 6th and 7th, forty to fifty on deck--remained
about one and a half hours. Inner Dowsing L.V., 6th, one hundred on
board, ten killed; flew at 5 P.M. to N.W.; 8th, fifty, E.S.E. to
W.N.W. Hasbro' L.V., 6th, forty; some died on board. Large numbers
also between the same dates at the Goodwin, Gull, and South Sand Head
L.V.'s. Many at the East Side and Varne L.V.'s on the 9th. A second
large immigration was observed between the 16th and 23d at Spurn, Outer
Dowsing L.V., Kentish Knock, the Goodwin L.V.'s, and Varne L.V.

Passer Montanus, Tree Sparrow.--Spring: Outer Dowsing L.V., April 2d
and 3d, several from E.S.E. to W. and S.W. Autumn: A considerable
immigration between the 3d and 8th of October, chiefly observed at
the Outer Dowsing and South Sand Head L.V.'s; and again, between the
15th and 23d, at some of the southern light-ships off the East Coast.
On November 13th I saw a flock, evidently recent arrivals, of about
2000 in Great Cotes Parish, within two miles of the East Coast. The
observers on the light-vessels now readily distinguish and discriminate
the two species.

Fringilla Cœlebs, Chaffinch.--Much the largest immigration of this
species hitherto recorded; were observed at twenty-one stations
covering the whole of the East Coast between the Farn and Channel
Islands. The main body came in between the 3d and 6th of October at
eleven stations in large numbers; and there was a second large arrival
from October 15th to 23d at nine stations. The first was seen on the
night of August 15th at Llyn Wells L.V., with Thrushes and Larks
round the lantern. The last entry is from Hanois L.V., October 24th,
Starlings and Chaffinches, 9 P.M. till morning. E. (4); and Kentish
Knock L.V., 25th, seven or eight, at 9.30 A.M., to S.W. In the Spring
of 1886, Chaffinches were observed at the Dudgeon L.V., with Larks,
Hedge Sparrows, and Starlings on March 22d, going from S.E. to N.W.;
Longstone L.H., April 20th, two to E.; and Outer Dowsing L.V., March
24th, several to W. and W.N.W.; May 29th, four to W.

Fringilla Montifringilla, Brambling.--Compared with the immense
immigration of 1885-86, Bramblings have been very scarce. Longstone
L.H., October 6th, five; Alnwick Northumberland, same date; Cockle
L.V., October 4th and 6th; Hunstanton L.H., 14th, sunrise, several
flocks to S.W. Tees L.V., 16th, one; Kentish Knock L.V., 27th, one; are
also reported very scarce or absent at inland stations. On April 20th,
1886, a single Brambling flew on board the Tees L.V.

Linota Cannabina, Linnet.--Cockle L.V., April 15th, eight to W.;
Dudgeon L.V., 28th, fifty, N.W. to S.E. _L. rufescens?_--Outer Dowsing
L.V., April 2d, three Redpoles flying about vessel.

Pyrrhula Europœa, Common Bullfinch.--Tees L.V., October 15th, S.E.,
rain, one came on board.

Loxia Curvirostra, Common Crossbill.--Great Cotes, July 28th, 3 P.M.,
one, quite a young bird, in the striated plumage, clinging to sash of
the dining-room window. Yarmouth, December 22d, one caught at sea and
brought in alive.

Emberiza Miliaria, Common Bunting.--Languard L.H., November 19th,
W.N.W., noon, large flock to N.E.

Plectrophanes Lapponicus, Lapland Bunting.--Dover, end of November,
adult male taken alive [H. A. M.].

P. Nivalis, Snow Bunting.--Spring: Tees L.V., March 13th, one to N.
Hunstanton L.H., April 2d, flock. Autumn: Spurn, September 20th, five.
Longstone L.H., 25th, one at 3 P.M. and three at 5 P.M. October 3,
11.30 A.M., S.S.E., three; 6th, three. Farn L.H., 16th, small flock.
Yarmouth, 30th, few. Tees L.V., November 8th and 13th, December 2d,
10th, and 27th, flocks to S. Cockle L.V., November 27th, 5.30 A.M., one
killed. Altogether the smallest immigration recorded for many years.

Alauda Arvensis, Skylark.--Spring, 1886: Spurn, March 2d, great rush
to S. with others (overcast, squally, snow). Outer Dowsing L.V.,
January 21st, 23d, and 24th, February 10th, 11th, and 13th, very large
migration; on 11th and 13th February, E.S.E. to W.N.W.; March 18th
and 19th, flight to S.W. and W., and some to end of April in same
direction. Dudgeon L.V., March 20th and 23d, Larks N.W. to S.E. Leman
and Ower L.V., February 12th and 13th, 3 A.M., and 12 P.M. to daylight,
to W. (seventy-two Larks and fifteen Starlings killed). Cockle L.V.,
March 8th, 7 A.M., large flock to E.; 10 A.M., large flock to W., very
swift. Kentish Knock L.V., January 22d and 23d, 6 P.M. to 4 A.M.,
thousands; February 30th, 4.30 A.M., thousands--like clouds. Cockle
L.V., January 19th to 29th, 1887, continuous flocks to W.

Autumn: An enormous migration, commencing at Llyn Wells L.V., July
24th, 25th, and 26th, all night, and on August 15th. Cromer L.H.,
September 20th, all night. There was an immense rush in October, the
bulk arriving in two almost continuous rushes during the first and
third weeks, observed at twenty-eight stations, seventeen of which are
light-vessels, and covering the whole East Coast of England. Again at
seven stations, but in considerable less numbers, to November 11th.
After this a few at intervals to the end of the year; general direction
of flight from E. to W., and S.E. to N.W.

Otocorys Alpestris, Shore Lark.--Longstone, March 1886, first week,
three caught alive near North Sunderland. Spurn, several in November
and December. Redcar, December early, flight, many shot; all examined
were young birds [T. H. N.]. Yarmouth, October 30th, several killed
above high water line; November 2d, two shot. Cley, Norfolk coast,
November 23d, twenty to thirty seen; 26th, fifty to sixty (O. V. A.).

Sturnus Vulgaris, Common Starling.--Spring: Outer Dowsing L.V., March
3d, 86, to April 20th, a few E.S.E. to W.N.W. Dudgeon L.V., March 20th,
thirty at noon, N.W. to S.E.; 22d, a few in the same direction. Leman
and Ower L.V., May 19th, some at 3 P.M. two killed.

Autumn: Spurn, June, young Starlings daily. Cromer L.V., September 24th
to 30th, flocks of young both by day and night. The main immigration
was in three great rushes in October, more or less observed at sixteen
stations between the Farn and Channel Islands from the 1st to 8th, 15th
to 23d, and 28th to 30th; a few to November 11th. Last at Hanois L.H.,
26th November, E.N.E., 3 A.M. till daylight, with Blackbirds, Thrushes,
and Lapwings.

Garrulus Glandarius, Common Jay.--Grainsby, north-east Lincolnshire,
October 25th, wind E., strong. A considerable immigration of Jays [G.
H. C. H.].

Corvus Monedula, Daw.--At several stations in October and November,
usually associated with Rooks and Crows; rush first week in October.
Dudgeon L.V., October 6th, seven Daws on board; left for N.N.W.

C. Corone, Carrion Crow.--Outer Dowsing L.V., October 6th, twenty from
S.E. to N.W. Spurn, October 30th, S.S.W., and November 1st, many, with
other _Corvidæ_ to S. (J. B. H.).

C. Cornix, Hooded Crow, Grey Crow, "Crows" generally.--Cockle L.V.,
1886, March 10th to 21st, large flocks of Crows daily at early morning
_to S.E. and E._; on the 18th, 19th, and 20th, with Larks and Daws
continuous for four and five hours, from 5.30 to 10 and 11 A.M. on
21st, from 7.30 to noon, but in less numbers; easterly winds. March
25th and 26th, flocks of Crows throughout the day to W.; and April
1st to 6th, at intervals to S.W., south-westerly winds; February 24th,
1887, 7 A.M., two flocks Jackdaws and Crows to E. Outer Dowsing L.V.,
March 19th, many Crows during day to eastward. Longstone L.H., April
7th, Hooded Crows, two flocks, to W. at 9.30 A.M. Hunstanton L.H.,
12th, Grey Crows last seen. Leman and Ower L.V., May 19th, sixty to
seventy Grey Crows at noon to W.; one killed. Autumn: Leman and Ower
L.V., October 4th, at dusk to N.W., rush; and Spurn, Outer Dowsing,
and Cromer on 6th; Longstone L.H., 7th, 9.30 A.M., W., two flocks to
W. From Whitby to the South Foreland at several stations throughout
October, and in less numbers to November 16th.

C. Frugilegus, Rook.--Spring: Longstone, April 25th, S.E., light,
several to E.; on April 13th, 7.30 A.M., small flock of nine to W.
Dudgeon L.V., March 20th, at 6 and 9 A.M., two large flocks from N.W.
to S.E. Hanois L.H., April 13th, three to N.W. Autumn: Spurn, October
6th, 7 to 10 P.M., moonlight, large flocks to S. Outer Dowsing L.V.,
6th, rush of all sorts _Corvidæ_ to W.; at several stations in October,
and in large numbers between Spurn and the South Foreland; migration
continued up to November 16th.

C. Corax, Raven.--Languard L.H., December 17th, 9 A.M., two passed to
Essex shore, and remained about till noon. A pair were seen at the same
station on June 22d, 1884, at 6.30 A.M.

Cypselus Apus, Common Swift.--Yarmouth, May 15th, first seen. Tees
L.V., June 20th, N., fresh, rain, great many; July 6th and 22d, great
many to S.W. and S. Longstone L.H., August 16th, W., fine, one caught
on lantern. Ship wash L.V., 16th, three.

Picus Major, Great Spotted Woodpecker.--Has been very common in the
coast and marsh districts of north-east Lincolnshire in the autumn and
winter. One bird stuffer told me he had about fifteen or sixteen sent
in. There must have been a large immigration.

Alcedo Ispida, Kingfisher.--Languard L.H., September 17th, 6.40 A.M.,
one.

Cuculus Canorus, Cuckoo.--Farn L.H., May 18th, W.S.W., 3 P.M., first
heard. Spurn, on 20th. Cromer L.H., July 29th, one struck at midnight,
not killed. Coquet L.H., August 3d, 11 A.M., one; Farn L.H., August
13th, 6 P.M., one on rocks. Whitby L.H., September 21st, N.E. (6), one
young.

Striges.--_Asio otus_, Long-eared Owl.--Longstone L.H., April 15th,
N.E., light, one. _A. accipitrinus_, Short-eared Owl.--Languard L.H.,
September 16th, noon, E., one. Tetney "fitties," October 6th, two.
Farn L.H., 7th, 1 A.M., one; and another at 6 A.M. Coquet L.H., 9th,
one. Redcar, 16th, one; Spurn, 19th and 22d, several. Coquet, 24th,
two. Seaton Snook, Durham, 27th, one shot coming in from sea. Farn
L.H., 29th, one. Tees L.V., November 6th, 9 A.M., E., one. _Owls
generally._--Llyn Wells L.V., September 24th, "Owl" on mast-head, came
from E., going S.W. Cromer L.H., October 28th, "Common Owl," at 3 A.M.,
flying around lantern. _Nyctea scandiaca_, Snowy Owl.--Mr Owen Boyle,
of the Languard L.H., under date of February 9th, wind E., reports
this species as shot by a visitor near the lighthouse. Subsequently,
Mr Boyle writes, in reply to my letter, that he is sure the bird was
a Snowy Owl. [Further information from the person who shot it, or the
present possessor, would be very desirable.]

Falconidæ.--Longstone L.H., August 23d, S.E., one Sparrow Hawk
(_Accipiter nisus_). Redcar, September 10th, immature Peregrine shot
at Saltburn; early in November a second. Llyn Wells L.V., 21st, "large
Hawk" on mast, and then to S.W. Tees L.V., 28th, "large Hawk." Norfolk
coast, Goshawk (_Astur palumbarius_), caught at sea, and brought in
alive to Yarmouth; date uncertain. Swin Middle L.V., October 7th, two
young Hawks caught on deck. Donna Nook, Lincolnshire coast, October
9th, 10th, and 11th, two Kites (_Milvus ictinus_) seen over and about
the rabbit warrens and sea banks. Cromer L.H., October 25th, very many
Hawks seen about during the day. Spurn, 30th, Rough-legged Buzzard
(_Archibuteo lagopus_), to S.; also several Merlin (_Falco æsalon_).

Phalacrocorax Carbo, Cormorant.--Dudgeon L.V., April 28th, thirty, N.W.
to S.E. Tees L.V., May 16th, one hundred Cormorants passed; largest
number ever seen here.--[H. H.]

Sula Bassana, Gannet.--Longstone L.H., March 21st to 31st, S. and W.
winds, many daily to N., and to April 20th in less numbers. 21st,
ceased altogether. Migration occupied a month, and was very persistent
and continuous. Outer Dowsing L.V., October 2d, large numbers about,
fishing for several days.

Ardea Cinerea, Common Heron.--Coquet Island, August 6th, one, and
several up to November 4th. Tetney, Lincolnshire, August 27th,
seventeen together on coast. Hanois L.H., September 14th, three, and
then twelve Herons to S.W.; 15th, one to S.W. October 6th, four to S. A
Purple Heron (_A. purpurea_) was shot on October 20th at Oulton Broad,
near Lowestoft. Spoonbill (_Platalea leucorodia_), June 6th, near
Yarmouth.

Anser.--_Anser cinereus_, "Grey-lag" Geese.--Longstone L.H., October
6th, thirty seen. North-East Lincolnshire, fifteen Grey Geese over
Grainsby Park on August 22d. "Wild Geese have been very abundant this
year, except during the late frosts; flocks have gone over the Park
almost every day."--[G. H. C. H.] Farn L.H., September 10th, Grey Goose
to W. November 22d, sunrise, very large flock to S. 23d, several small
flocks to N. Great Cotes, November 22d, 4 P.M., flock of Bean Geese N.
to S. Brent Goose (_Bernicla brenta_), Tees L.V., February 27th; March
22d, 1886, large flocks off Tees; also Ducks and Widgeon. Coquet L.H.,
middle to end of August, many to north.

Cygnus, Swan.--Redcar, July 29th, 6 A.M., four seen at sea, going N.W.
August 1st, eight (Mute Swans) all shot. Whitby L.H., August 1st,
sixteen White Swans seen going north. Seaton Carew, Durham, July 25th,
two to S. August 5th, three different flocks of Swans; shot at seven,
wounded one, but lost it. 6th, four seen going inland.--[E. B. G.] I
have no doubt the whole of these occurrences have reference to escapes
from private waters and parks. I am told the Swans from the New Park at
Grimsby were flying about in the Humber in August.

Ducks, Sheldrake (_Tadorna cornuta_).--Farn L.H., June 13th,
old bird and nine young. Tees L.V., February 27th to March 22d,
1886, twenty-five in flock. November 5th, fifty-five. Common Teal
(_Querquedula crecca_), Tetney, August 12th, large arrival. Cley,
Norfolk, September 15th, first; Tees L.V., 16th, same. Widgeon
(_Mareca penelope_), Tees L.V., April 7th, 1886, last seen, large
flock. Yarmouth, March 1st, 1886, continuous flocks along coast. Cley,
Norfolk, September 15th, Widgeon, with Teal. Tees L.V., 16th, flock.
Tetney, October 6th, four shot. Languard L.H., October 29th, flock
of eleven. Pochard (_Fuligula ferina_), very common on the Humber
during the winter; many shot, including several old males. Scaup (_F.
marila_), Great Cotes, March 8th, 1886, flock, all males, off sluice;
26th, flock at same place, males and females, in pairs. February 8th,
1887, same locality, flock of thirty-eight adult males and females in
equal proportions. Cockle L.V., January 23d, fifty, both males and
females. Harlequin Duck (_Cosmonetta histrionica_), Farn L.H., December
2d, three, two shot (went to well-known collectors). Long-tailed Duck
(_Harelda glacialis_), Redcar, October 21st, three shot, young birds.
Farn L.H., November 8th, 11 A.M., eleven flying N. Coquet L.H., 17th,
one shot. Eider Duck (_Somateria mollissima_), Farn L.H., June 20th,
Eider and five young, first brood. Coquet, October 8th, many, both male
and female, off island. Velvet Scoter (_Œdemia fusca_), Redcar, October
13th, three; 18th, seven, two shot young. Common Scoter (_Œ. nigra_),
Whitby L.H., April 30th, midnight, one killed. Leman and Ower L.V., May
9th, great numbers of Black Ducks at midnight to E., some killed. Large
number of Scoters reported from various parts of the coast, on the move
to and from their feeding grounds. Goosander (_Mergus merganser_), more
than usually numerous in the Humber during the winter; in one case
five were killed, at a shot, from a flock of twelve near Tetney Haven.
Red-breasted Merganser (_M. serrator_), Farn L.H., December 24th, one,
a drake, off island.

Columba Palumbus, Ringdove.--Outer Dowsing L.V., May 19th, one to W.
Tetney, October 17th, flocks of migratory Wood Pigeons. Grainsby,
November 17th and 19th, morning, large flocks to S.W. Spurn L.H.,
November 26th, from 7 to 10 P.M., [3] N.W., numbers of Wood Pigeons,
several on gallery of lantern. January 18th, 4 P.M., flock to S.
February 1st, 10 A.M., two to S. Cromer L.H., December 9th and 18th,
great many. Languard L.H., February 5th, 3 to 4 P.M., large flock
inland, towards Orwell Park. Longstone L.H., July 19th, Rock Pigeon
(_C. livia_).

Turtur Communis, Turtle Dove.--Flamborough L.H., May 11th, one.
Longstone L.H., 20th, 6.30 P.M., variable, N.E. to S.E. to S. by W.,
two seen; 28th, 9 A.M., S., rain, one. Cromer L.H., June 4th, 1.30
A.M., one killed. Redcar, September 7th, small flock of seven, one
killed. Leman and Ower L.V., May 6th, 3 A.M., two "Doves" from S.E.,
and twenty to thirty small birds with them.[8]

[Footnote 8: Mr G. H. Caton Haigh writes that the Turtle Dove has
been very common during the summer in the neighbourhood of Grainsby,
North-East Lincolnshire. About the middle of June one of the keepers
saw a flock of twenty or thirty at Cadeby. The same man also saw eight
in Grainsby Healing during the third week in August. Another keeper had
seen a pair or two about Beasby Wood, and a pair in an orchard in the
village of Grainsby all through the summer.]

Coturnix Communis, Quail.--Shipwash L.V., October 22d, 1 A.M., one
killed (wing sent).

Rallus Aquaticus, Water-Rail.--Spurn L.V., November 1st, 6 A.M., S.W.,
one caught on deck. Llyn Wells L.V., November 1st, 3 A.M., two killed
striking the lantern. Coquet L.V., November 4th, one killed.

Crex Pratensis, Land-Rail.--Whitby L.V., May 7th, 2 A.M., first heard.
Farn L.H., 17th, 4 A.M., W., Land-Rail. Common Coot (_Fulica atra_),
Languard L.H., September 8th, 2.45 A.M., one struck and killed.

Charadriidæ.--_Charadrius pluvialis_, Golden Plover.--Farn L.H.,
September 12th, thirteen to W. Tetney, October 18th, E. to N.E.,
first flights. Languard L.H., October 31st, large flock to W. at 3
P.M. _Squatarola helvetica_, Grey Plover.--Yarmouth, May, first and
second weeks, several in summer dress September 22d, first autumn
arrivals. Great Cotes, May 18th, 1886, about 200 along the foreshore,
the majority in full summer dress. March 10th, 1887, some young of the
previous year seen on the muds to-day had not lost the golden-drop
plumage of the autumn. _Ægialitis cantiana_, Kentish Plover.--Yarmouth.
April 29th, two seen in a flock of Dunlin and Ringed Plover; June
10th, one seen. Languard L.H., November 27th, 7.50 A.M., two pitched
on beach; left at noon. _Ægialitis hiaticula_, Ringed Plover.--Great
Cotes, May 18th, 1886, great numbers on flats. Languard L.H., November
16th, thousands of Dotterel and Oxbirds together pitched on beach at
high water. Swin Middle L.V., November 13th, 2.50 P.M., W., thousands
of "Stone Runners" first seen to E., then to W. (see p. 48); 18th,
the same, a very large flight in sight from 3.55 to 4.20 going S.E.
to S.W.; also on December 28th and January 13th. Great Cotes, August
19th, early night, sultry and dull, several Kinged Plover passing
over. Trent Lock, Notts, August 19th, same at 9 P.M. [F. B. W.].
_Eudromias morinellus_, Dotterel.--Great Cotes, May 4th and 5th, trip
of eight. Robin Hood's Bay, Yorkshire, September, first week, six shot;
Whitby, 6th, four; Seaton-Carew, 10th, one shot. _Vanellus vulgaris_,
Lapwing.--Outer Dowsing L.V., October 6th, great rush with others;
Leman and Ower L.V., 8th, many during night to W.; Inner Dowsing L.V.,
17th, one. Languard L.H., November 8th, hundreds at 2 P.M.; 26th, 3
A.M. till daylight, with many others. Great Cotes, December 13th, about
12,000 in one field twenty-four hours before the frost commencing on
the 14th; Whitby, 24th, all morning in small flocks, twenty to forty,
coming in from sea. Redcar, January 21st, 1887, S.W., strong; and 22d,
W.N.W, many with larks coming in from sea and going W. Strepsilas
interpres, Turnstone.--Yarmouth, May 14th, some; Great Cotes, 18th, a
dozen in various plumage. Yarmouth, September 8th, some. _Hæmatopus
ostralegus_, Oystercatcher.--Redcar, August 5th to end of month and to
September 7th, many. Leman and Ower L.V., June 18th, one killed.

Scolopacidæ, _Recurvirostra avocetta_, Avocet.--Redcar, August 5th,
12.10 P.M., one (I am sure of species.--T. H. N.). _Phalaropus
fulicarius_, Grey Phalarope.--October 14th, one picked up at
Bassingham, near Lincoln. _Scolopax rusticula_, Woodcock.--Spring:
Longstone L.H., April 3d, 1.30 P.M., S. by E., one Woodcock to E.
Autumn: Farn L.H., October 4th, one; Flambro', 5th, some. "First
flight" at Coquet Island, Whitby, Spurn, and Norfolk coast on 6th.
At Whitby L.H., one struck at 1.30 A.M., probably marking the time
of arrival of the flight on the East Coast; wind south-easterly,
overcast, misty. The second or "great flight," from October 16th to
25th, from the Farn Islands to the Norfolk coast, birds dropping
here and there in a desultory fashion, and nowhere plentiful, wind
E. and E.S.E.; on October 15th to 16th a gale from E.S.E. A few on
October 28th, 29th, and 30th, and scattered occurrences up to November
15th. The last recorded as coming in from the sea was at Tees L.V.,
December 18th, going W.; wind W.S.W. _Gallinago cœlestis_, Common
Snipe.--Longstone L.H., August 8th, one; 23d, one. Tetney, August 12th,
flight. Whitby L.H., October 4th, 4 A.M., one killed. Longstone L.H.,
October 4th, 1 A.M., one heard in flight. Yarmouth, October 30th,
flight; Coquet, November 18th, 8 A.M., S.S.E., four. _G. gallinula_,
Jacksnipe.--Longstone snipe.--Longstone L.H., April 25th, 10.30
A.M., one.[9] Autumn: At the Farn Island stations and Lincolnshire
coast from October 2d to 6th, wind generally south-easterly. _Tringa
alpina_, Dunlin.--Spring, 1886: Yarmouth, April 29th, enormous
numbers on north beach, some Ringed Plover amongst them. Trent Lock,
May 9th, 11 A.M., twenty to thirty Black-breasted Dunlin; Great
Cotes, 18th, great numbers in summer plumage. _T. subarquata_,
Pigmy Curlew.--Yarmouth, July 31st, one in full summer plumage. _T.
striata_, Purple Sandpiper.--Tarn L.H., September 22d, some on rocks;
October 31st, flock of twenty. Yarmouth, November 17th, two shot.
_T. canutus_, Knot.--Spring, 1886: Yarmouth, April 13th, Knot and
Dunlin on Breydon in semi-summer dress. Longstone L.H., July 16th,
S.E., fine, one. Redcar, August 19th to end of month, a few seen at
sea. Tetney, February 24th, 1887, out of six shot to-day, one had the
lower parts mottled with faded brick red, the summer plumage of the
previous year having not been altogether cast off. _Calidris arenaria_,
Sanderling.--Yarmouth, May 14th, considerable arrival with others;
some seen on the 9th. _Totanus ochropus_, Green Sandpiper.--Longstone
L.H., July 29th, one seen (very rare here). Grainsby, Lincolnshire
(Waithe-beck), July 27th, first; August 23d, large arrival; end of
March, all have left. _T. glareola_, Wood Sandpiper.--Cley, Norfolk,
August 13th. _T. calidris_, Redshank.--Longstone L.H., July 29th.
Farn L.H., September 4th and 9th, many. Tees L.V., October 30th,
twenty; always common on the Lincolnshire coast and at Spurn in the
autumn. _T. fuscus_, Spotted Redshank.--Breydon, Norfolk, August 15th,
one. _T. canescens_, Greenshank.--Yarmouth, April 28th, 1886, two;
May 14th, some; and on return, November 27th. _Limosa lapponica_,
Bar-tailed Godwit.--Yarmouth, April 12th, 1886, first; 14th, some;
May 14th, great arrival. Autumn: September 22d, first. Redcar, July
19th, 12.30 P.M., seven or eight to E. _L. ægocephala_, Black-tailed
Godwit.--September 12th, one at Breydon, Norfolk. _Numenius phæopus_,
Whimbrel.--Spring: April 26th, Breydon, Yarmouth, in small number. May
14th, large arrival with others. Autumn: Redcar, June 19th, first
heard passing over; last on September 7th. Great Cotes, July 26th,
first heard. Tees L.V., August 30th, twenty; October 30th, very large
flock of Curlew, Whimbrel, some Oyster-catchers and Redshanks; January
4th, 1887, large flocks both of Whimbrel and Curlew. _N. arquata_,
Curlew.--Leman and Ower L.V., May 10th, 1886, 3 A.M., five, one killed.
Great Cotes, August 19th, first young Curlew in marsh; 20th, hundreds
of Curlew in the marsh for a few hours. I was told by one observer he
had seen thousands. Redcar, September 6th, at sea flock to W. Yarmouth,
September, early, very numerous; Redcar, 19th, flight, with others,
overhead, 10 to 11 P.M., foggy and dark. Tees L.V., October 30th, very
large flight; Hasbro' L.V., 30th, 7 P.M. to midnight, many round light,
none struck. Winterton, October 27th, 8.30 P.M., flight to W. Tees
L.V., January 4th, 1887, large flocks.

[Footnote 9: Mr Thomas O. Hall, of the Longstone L.H., speaks of the
great scarcity of birds this season, and thinks they must have crossed
further south, the prevailing winds having been E.N.E. and N.E.,
crushing down the migration, and giving it a southerly direction.]

The migration of waders was observed inland by their nocturnal cries.
Great Cotes, August, night of 19th, Ringed Plover. Trent Lock, Notts,
by Mr E. B. Whitlock, August 19th, Ringed Plover; 21st, Sandpipers and
others; 24th, Curlew. At Grainsby, by Mr Haigh. August 29th, waders;
and by Professor Newton, of Cambridge, July 21st to 22d and 26th to
27th, about midnight.

Sterninæ.--_Sterna macrura_, Arctic Tern.--Farn L.H., May 4th, 1886, 5
A.M., first appearance; September 2d, left breeding haunts. Yarmouth,
May 14th, some along coast. _S. fluviatilis_, Common Tern.--Trent Lock,
Notts, May 11th, one; 13th, three. Tees L.V., July 25th, August 10th
and 14th, great numbers of Terns at sea. Redcar, August 19th to end,
great many at sea. _S. minuta_, Little Tern.--Spurn, April 5th, first
seen at breeding-place. Yarmouth, April 28th, two seen with Black
Tern; May 12th, two. Rye, Sussex, May 4th and 5th, first Lesser Tern.
_S. cantiaca_, Sandwich Tern.--Farn L.H., April 28th, 5 A.M., nine
seen--left nesting quarters on September 2d. _Hydrochelidon nigra_,
Black Tern.--Yarmouth, April 26th, 1886, flight from S.W. to N.E., wind
E.; 27th and 28th, some to N.E.; May 14th, some. Another observer,
April 28th, twenty in flock to N.E. Cley, Norfolk, September 1st, young
Black Tern to S.

Larinæ.--_Larus minutus_, Lesser Gull.--Redcar, June 14th, W.,
squally, four seen off pier; November, one. _L. argentatus_, Herring
Gull.--Whitby L.H., February 15th, many at daybreak to breeding haunts;
July 6th, first young on wing; August 27th, all left cliffs for sea.
Leman and Ower L.V., October 2d, great numbers in ship channel, to
S. at night and back in morning. Swin L.V., December 23d and 25th,
hundreds and thousands near vessel, fishing for sprats. _L. glaucus_,
Glaucous Gull.--Farn L.H., December 28th, one to N. _Rissa tridactyla_,
Kittiwake.--Farn L.H., November 13th and 24th, hundreds of Gulls and
Kittiwakes fishing round island. Grimsby, January 7th, 1887, saw
nine, young and old, brought in by fishing smack, shot at sea. Gulls
generally.--Flambro' L.H., February 25th and March 4th, 1886, in great
numbers off headland; June 1st, Gulls and Guillemots all day fishing
off head in large numbers. Llyn Wells L.V., August 9th, several flocks
came in from E.; wind W. Leman and Ower L.V., August 22d, immense
numbers about ship, two came on board. Languard L.H., November 5th,
December 26th, and January 23d, 1887, large flocks came in with a
southerly gale. Yarmouth, October 15th, gale from S., great numbers
to south. Cromer, October 17th, great many to N.; wind N.N.E. The
Mediterranean Black-headed Gull, _Larus melanocephalus_, was shot on
Breydon Water, Yarmouth, on December 26th, 1886.

Stercorariinæ.--_S. catarrhactes_, Common Skua.--Redcar, October 14th,
shot at sea. _S. pomatorhinus_ and _crepidatus_, Tees L.V., July 25th,
two Skua. Longstone L.H., September 3d, several Richardson's and
"Common" Skua seen. Redcar, October 8th, Richardson's Skua shot at sea,
Pomatorhine seen at the same time; 14th, three Richardson's Skua (one
adult, two immature) shot at sea, one Pomatorhine seen, and several
others of both reported out at sea by fishermen; 15th, several of both
going N.W., wind S.E., strong. Flamborough, Mr Bailey, writing under
date of October 13th (_Naturalist_, 1886, p. 340), says: "Since October
2d, more sea birds have frequented our coast than I ever remember. Manx
Shearwaters, Cinereous Shearwaters, and hundreds of Skuas and Gannets,
also Guillemots and Razorbills in their winter plumage. Little Gulls,
Terns, one Black Guillemot (immature), and thousands of Kittiwakes
feeding in the early morning, several I saw having herrings' tails
hanging out of their bills. The birds covered a large area north and
south of the headland."

Procellariidæ.--_Procellaria pelagica._--Coquet L.H., September 28th,
11 P.M., S.W. (6), one on lantern. Dudgeon L.V., October 28th, one
killed; 30th, same. Hasbro' L.V., 30th, 7 P.M. to midnight, many; six
killed on deck. Cockle L.V., 31st, five about vessel during night.
Llyn Wells L.V., November 7th, 7 P.M. to midnight, about light.
_Puffinus?_--Redcar, August 18th, 6 A.M., ten Shearwaters to N. Many,
both Manx and Great Shearwater, off Flambro', early in October.

Alcidæ, _Lomvia troile_, Common Guillemot.--Longstone L.H. March 4th,
first to breeding haunts, left again on 16th, returned for good first
week in April. Flambro', February 25th, both Guillemot and Gulls in
large numbers on cliffs. _U. grylle_, Black Guillemot.--Farn L.H.,
May 11th, one; also one, an immature bird, shot off Flambro' early
in October. Spurn L.H., October 26th, E.N.E., a Common Guillemot was
killed against the lantern. _Fratercula arctica_, Puffin.--Longstone
L.H., March 15th, first, the bulk returning on April 11th and 12th.

Colymbidæ.--Very many Great Northern and Red-throated Divers reported
from various parts of the East Coast between September 1st and the
end of the year; only one Black-throated. Diver, recognised as such,
Cromer, November 20th, seen off pier at early morning.

Podicipitidæ.--Cley, Norfolk, Red-necked Grebe (_P. griseigena_), on
August 10th; Little Grebe (_P. fluviatilis_). Spurn L.H., October
7th, 2 A.M., S.S.E., struck and killed. Leman and Ower L.V., December
29th, N.E., one killed at midnight. A considerable immigration into
North-East Lincolnshire about the middle of November.


Miscellaneous Notes.

Tees 5 Buoy L.V., April 30th, 1886.--Wind E., light. A great many
bumble-bees and a few wasps during day, flying to N.W.; several
remained on board. January 15th, 1887.--One seal.

Hartlepool, November.--A fine specimen of the Opah (_Lampris luna_)
brought in.

Coquet Island L.H., September 12th, W. (5).--Hundreds of small Flies
all night in lantern.

Outer Dowsing L.V., October 6th.--11 A.M. to 2 P.M., calm and fog. Mr
W. Stock writes: "A very large quantity of birds flew over, and a great
many flying about the vessel--Starlings, Redwings, Larks, Mountain
Sparrows, Golden-Crested Wrens, six Robins, four Redpoles, Chaffinches,
and Pewits, about 300 mixed Crows and Rooks--altogether about 600 or
more. Birds leaving the vessel appear to go about W. and W.S.W. When
the fog cleared and the sun broke through, the Crows were seen passing
to W. in three nights from 11 till 11.45 A.M. At noon they came back
to the vessel in a body, and remained till 1 P.M. Caught one Redwing
Thrush that was struck by a Crow and fell on deck bleeding. Several
small birds struck by Crows and fell in water. Two Red-winged Thrushes
and one Chaffinch caught on board."

Cockle L.V., September 14th.--11 A.M., calm. Great quantities of small
bluish-coloured Flies; left at 1 P.M.

Languard L.V., September.--"The Musquitoes," Mr Owen Boyle writes,
"have been very numerous throughout the months of July, August, and
September. They have been very troublesome; many people had swelled
hands, puffed faces, and even black eyes, from their stings." October
4th.--Lady-birds in large numbers on the breakwater at noon, and up to
sunset. At 3 P.M. they were to be seen in thousands.

Swin Middle L.V.--Mr S. Pender, with reference to the migration of
the Ringed Plover, writes under date of October 30th: "Concerning
the birds which, I think, must be the 'stone-runners,' and their
manœuvres, it was very amusing to watch them. The birds were first
seen in an eastward direction, and I should think thousands, for when
in close contact they had the appearance of a small black cloud; at
other times in a long line and half circle, and so on. After they
had finished their exercise they separated into two parties, one
passing to the westward at no great distance from the vessel, and the
other disappeared in the direction where first seen. Sometimes they
would rise so high in the air, that they could not be seen without a
telescope, at other times apparently touching the water."

Hanois L.H., October 31st, 8 P.M.--A quantity of Silver Gamma Moths;
also a few brown ones, but smaller than the Gamma.

Mr Philip W. Munn, writing from Nieder Kaufungen, near Cassel, Germany,
under date of March 30th, 1886, says:

"The weather began to break up on Saturday week, and all the snow
had disappeared by the following Monday morning. No sooner did the
weather begin to break, and even before, than the birds began to rush
northwards to their breeding quarters.

"On the 25th of February, quantities of Skylarks flew overhead in small
parties in a northerly direction, the wind being S.E. This species
stopped here on the 5th of March, and have now taken the place of the
Crested Larks, most of which have left.

"On March 12th, I saw a Grey Wagtail; and a Hawfinch arrived and stayed
here for a few days, and then departed.

"On the 16th, a large flock of Carrion Crows, Jackdaws, and Rooks (the
Books have been very rare during the winter) flew over towards the
N.E.; the passing over lasted ten minutes. On many other days later
have I also seen small parties of '_Corvidæ_' hurrying N.E.

"On March 18th, I saw a Black-Headed Bunting; on the 19th, White and
Pied Wagtails arrived. Now the Pied have left, and quantities of the
White remain and have begun to build.

"On the 23d, an extraordinary migration of Cranes began, and is going
on at intervals now; they are usually flying in a N. or N.E. direction,
but yesterday I saw three flying S.E., which has much confused me. On
the 23d, a flock settled in the fields near here for a short time. Soon
after this flock had gone, no less than nine flights, of from forty to
one hundred birds in each flock, flew over at intervals.

"Curiously enough Robins and Thrushes are only summer migrants here;
they arrived on the 24th.

"I heard the Chiffchaff on March 25th; and on the same day was another
great migration of Cranes.

"On October 15th was the great rush of migratory birds, parties of
various sorts continually passing the whole day to the S.W."

List of Wings sent in from Lighthouses and Light-vessels, East Coast of
England.

  Station.                  Date.        Species.
                            1886.

  Leman and Ower L.V.    Jan.   23.   Snow Bunting.
      "        "         April  25.  Wheatear.
      "                  May    13.    Whinchat.
      "        "          "     23.    Wheatear.
      "        "          "     24. Sedge Warbler.
      "        "          "     23. Turtle Dove.
      "        "         June    1. Wheatear.
      "        "          "     18. Oystercatcher.
  Shipwash L.V.          May    18. Two Grey Plover.
      "        "          "     18. Yellow Hammer.
      "        "          "     18. Wheatear.
  Swin Middle L.V.       Sept.  26. Cuckoo, young.
  Nore L.V.              Oct.    4. Redwing.
  Spurn L.H.              "      8. Little Grebe, bird sent.
      "        "          "     26. Guillemot.
  Shipwash L.V.           "     22. Quail.
      "        "          "     22. Goldcrest.
  Llyn Wells L.V.        Nov.    1. Two Water Rails.
  Coquet L.H.             "     17. Long-tailed Duck.
      "        "          "      4. Water Rail.
      "        "         Oct.    5. Sedge Warbler.
  Hasbro' L.V.           Aug.   27. Red-backed Shrike.
      "        "         Sept.   3. Rock Pipit.
      "        "          "     19. Redstart.
      "        "         Oct.   31. Stormy Petrel.
      "        "         Nov.   12. Fieldfare.
  Spurn L.V.              "      1. Water Rail.
  South Sand Head L.V.   Oct. 5, 6. Chaffinch.
  Leman and Ower L.V.    Dec.   29. Little Grebe.
                            1887.
      "        "         Jan.   18. Tree Sparrow.
      "        "          "     24. Rock Pipit.
      "        "          "     25. Robin.
  Shipwash L.V.          Feb.   13. Knot.
      "        "         April  12. Woodcock.


General Remarks.

As in 1885, the main body of immigrants crossed in two great rushes,
corresponding with the first and third weeks in October. This was
considerably earlier than the chief general movements of the preceding
year. The meteorological conditions of the first period were easterly
and south-easterly winds, pressure system cyclonic, accompanied by much
fog and thick weather. During the second period the pressure system
again mainly cyclonic, but with very variable winds.

As usual Rooks, Daws, Hooded Crows, Starlings, and Larks, occupy a
considerable portion of the schedules. Chaffinches also have crossed in
extraordinary numbers. They are always numerous, but this autumn their
migration has been in considerable excess of previous years. With these
exceptions, however, there has been a singular and very marked falling
off in some species whose breeding range lies chiefly in the north of
Europe. This is specially noticeable in the small arrivals recorded
of Fieldfares, Redwings, Ring Ouzels, Bramblings, Snow Buntings,
Short-eared Owls, and Woodcocks. Taken altogether, the migratory record
for 1886 is a very poor one.

No wild Swans are recorded, the few entries in the schedules having
undoubtedly reference to escapes from parks and private waters. Geese
and Ducks have appeared quite as numerously as in previous years.

The arrivals of rare and occasional visitants have been few, those of
chief interest being three Harlequin Ducks (_Cosmonetta histrionica_)
at the Farn Islands; the Mediterranean Black-headed Gull (_Larus
melanocephalus_), shot on Breydon Water, near Yarmouth; a Purple Heron
(_Ardea purpurea_), shot on Oulton Broad, near Lowestoft; and the
reputed occurrences of the Snowy Owl (_Nyctea scandiaca_) close to
the Languard L.H., Suffolk. Of much interest also is the arrival of
Shorelarks (_Otocorys alpestris_) on the coast between the Farn Islands
and Yarmouth.

The continued yearly observations show that on the East Coast of
England the principal points of arrival for migrants are the mouths of
the chief rivers, also those parts of the coast which present either a
flat and open shore, or cliffs of low altitude. Considerable stretches
of coast, which, as a rule, have a high cliff line, make poor returns,
or in some cases no schedules are sent in, indicating a great scarcity
of birds.

It is well known that migrants under certain meteorological conditions
travel at a great height, when it may fairly be presumed that the
physical features of the earth's surface, the trend of mountain chains,
or the course of great river systems, have little to do in determining
their line, which is from point to point, and without deviation; yet
in the vast majority of cases, where migration is visible, birds
travel at a comparatively low altitude, so that when passing mountain
chains, and even hills of no great altitude, they invariably choose
the lines of the valleys, following depressions which, more or less,
correspond to the general direction of their course. In the Cheviots
I have observed, for two years in succession, that the streams of
small migrants from Scotland follow those main valleys which run
nearest north and south, sticking closely to the lowest levels, where
the brushwood and bracken beds offer greater privacy and security than
the bare fell sides. Birds also, when migrating, follow from choice
low-lying tracks of land and river courses in preference to elevated
plateau and the summit line of mountain ranges.

Bearing these facts in mind, we find that there is a very well-marked
line, both of entry and return, at the Farn Islands, on the coast of
Northumberland. Scarcely second to this is the mouth of the Tees,
both in spring and autumn. The North Yorkshire coast, from south of
Redcar to Flamborough, including the north side of the headland, is
comparatively barren, few birds appearing to come in between these
points. Bridlington Bay and Holderness to Spurn and Lincolnshire, as
far as Gibraltar Point, give perhaps the best returns of any on the
East Coast. The north of Norfolk is poor, but there are indications in
the heavy returns annually sent from the Llyn Wells, Dudgeon, Leman
and Ower, and Happisburgh light-vessels, that a closely focused stream
pours along the coast from E. to W., to pass inland by the estuary
of the Wash and the river systems of the Nene and Welland into the
centre of England, and thence probably following the line of the Avon,
the north coast of the Severn, and Bristol Channel, and eventually
striking across the Irish Sea, to enter Ireland near the Tuskar Rock,
off the Wexford coast. This route is undoubtedly the great and main
thoroughfare for birds in transit across England to Ireland in the
autumn. Large numbers of migrants also which pass inland from the
coasts of Holderness and Lincolnshire may eventually join in with the
great western highway by the line of the Trent, avoiding altogether the
mountainous districts of Wales. These remarks will refer chiefly to the
Passerine birds, the _Accipitres_, _Limicolæ_, and _Gaviæ_, also Geese
and Ducks, when crossing land, travelling as a rule very high.

To return once more to the East Coast, the Norfolk seaboard between
Cromer and Yarmouth and the corresponding light-vessels show a large
annual immigration, but the returns are less pronounced between
Yarmouth and Orfordness. The coast of Essex, with the northern side of
the Thames estuary, is fairly good; but the opposite coast of Kent,
from the North to the South Forelands, including the four Goodwin and
the Varne light-vessels, is a barren and pre-eminently uninteresting
district for arrivals, both as regards numbers and species, the chief
migrants seen being such as are following the coast to the south.

Those migrants, which in the autumn follow the East Coast from north to
south, pass directly from the Spurn to the Lincolnshire coast without
entering the Humber; and there are no indications that they follow
the shores of the Wash in and out, but shape their course from about
Gibraltar Point to the Norfolk coast. To judge from the well-filled
schedules sent in year by year from the Shipwash, Swin Middle, Kentish
Knock, and Galloper light-vessels, a closely packed stream passes
somewhere from the coast of Suffolk across the North Sea in the line
of these stations, both in the spring and autumn, to and from the
Continent. Autumn migrants approaching the Humber from the sea do not
follow the course of that river into the interior--that is from S.E.
to N.W.--the line they take invariably crosses the river diagonally,
and is from E.S.E. to W.N.W. This course is so persistently followed,
that I have observed year by year, on a migratory day, birds cross our
fields at the same angle. Supposing this course to be continued they
would strike the Trent at or near Gainsborough.

Except in one instance no returns have been obtained from any stations
on the south-east coast between the South Foreland and St Catherine's
Point, Isle of Wight. This is much to be regretted, as it is known that
a strong migratory highway runs along the South Coast as well as on the
French side of the Channel.

                            ==============




                        WEST COAST OF SCOTLAND.


Schedules, etc., were sent to thirty-five stations, not including the
Isle of Man (five more), the schedules for which are under Mr Eagle
Clarke's charge. Of the thirty-five we have received returns from
fifteen stations. From these fifteen stations we have thirty-eight
filled schedules. We have again received two schedules from Monach
Islands; but, as in 1885, they are again written straight across the
schedule, irrespective of columns. To enter all these notes in their
right places and sequence in our Report would cause great additional
labour and loss of time to the working members of the Committee, as
already fully explained in last Report (p. 92), _q.v._

We would be much obliged by our Reporters adhering to the columnar
arrangement.


                           LIST OF STATIONS.

Note: The names of the Reporters are given under "Diary from the
Stations."

    Returns
  in 8 years,  In
   including   1887.   List of Stations.
     1887.                                           Values.  Feet.

  Sutherland.

       4             81.    Cape Wrath,                 III.   400
       4             82.    Rhu Stoir,                   II.   195

  Outer Hebrides.

       7        *    83.    Butt of Lewis,                I.   170
       3             84.    Stornoway (2 Lights),      { II. }  56
                                                       {  I. }
       3             85.    Island Ghlais,                I.   130
       7        *    86.    Monach Islands,            {  I.   150
                                                       { II.    62
       2             87.    Ushenish, N. Unst,           VI.   176
       4             88.    Barra Head,                  II.   683
       4        *    89.    Rona, Skye,                  IV.   222
       7        *    90.    Kyleakin, W. Ross,           IV.    53
       2             91.    Isle Ornsay,                  I.    58
       2             92.    Ardnamurchan                  I.
       8        *    93.    Skerryvore and Hynish
                              Signal Tower, Tiree,       II.   150
       8        *    94.    Dhuheartach,                  I.   146
       5             95.    Sound of Mull,                V.    55
       0             96.    Corran Ferry,                IV.    38
       4             97.    Lismore, Oban,                I.   103
       2             98.    Fladda, Easdale,             VI.    42
       4             99.    Rhuvaal,                     IV.   147
       7            100.    M'Arthur's Head,             IV.   128
       8        *   101.    Skervuile,                   II.    73
       8        *   102.    Rhinns of Islay,             IV.   159
       3        *   103.    Lochindaul,                  IV.    50
       0            104.    Mull of Cantyre,             VI.   297
       0            105.    Sanda,
       0            106.    Devaar,                      II.   120
       0            107.    Pladda, Arran,               II.   130
       5        *   108.    Lamlash, Arran,              IV.    46
       4        *   109.    Turnberry, Ayrshire,         IV.    96
       4            109b.   Ailsa Craig, 1885,
       7        *   110.    Corsewall,                   IV.   112
       0            111.    Loch Ryan,                    I.    46
       7        *   112.    Portpatrick,                  I.    37
       7        *   113.    Mull of Galloway,            II.   325
       4        *   114.    Little Ross,                 IV.   176

_Diary from the Stations._

_Butt of Lewis._--Robert Agnew (replacing Mr Edgar, who is now at
Lochindaul, _q.v._). Mr R. Agnew is a son of Mr Joseph Agnew, late
keeper at Isle of May (East Coast), now stationed at Monach Isles,
_q.v._ Mr R. Agnew sends, in all, two excellently well-filled schedules
from the Butt of Lewis. Under date of November 9th, 1886, he writes:
"I send you a schedule. I hope you will find it of use. I would have
sent it sooner, but wrote to my father for the loan of a book to help
me, and waited till I heard from him." [Schedules sent date from August
23d to February 7, 1887.] Mr Agnew continues: "I am surprised to see
that most of the strange birds that I have seen here are _single_. It
must just be occasional stragglers that we get from the flocks that
are passing. It is also strange that there are so few birds coming to
the lantern, but the tower is very high--120 feet--and perhaps that is
the reason." [Mr R. Agnew is right in believing that stragglers are
all that can be expected to appear at Butt of Lewis, though possibly
in exceptional seasons unusual numbers may appear. Birds "catch up" at
Cape Wrath and W. C. of Scotland. Remnants "catch up" again at Butt of
Lewis. But in easterly gales the "catch up" of the land is often lost,
and hundreds or thousands are carried clear away to the Atlantic. See
previous Reports.--J. A. H.-B.] Mr Agnew continues: "I have marked a
Hen Harrier, and by the description in the book" [he having received
the loan of the book from his father--Mudie's "Birds"], "I think I am
right. He remained here for some time, and the poor Rock Pigeons led
a poor time of it. I also found a young Gull he had killed and eaten.
I was surprised to see it, because I did not think that he would have
attacked so large a bird. I measured the wings, and found them to be
4 feet 2 inches from tip to tip." [Mr R. A. sent me the wings, but
they did not reach me, and must have miscarried, but no doubt it was
one of the common species of Gulls; from the measurements, probably a
Herring Gull; or possibly--_i.e._, if the measurements are correctly
taken across the back and wings--an Iceland Gull. (See MacGillivray's
"Manual," under the said species, vol. ii., p. 247.)--J. A. H.-B.] Mr
R. A. says: "I only came here last summer, and did not begin to keep
records till near the end of August, but another year I hope to be able
to do better." [Meanwhile, we can only thank Mr R. A. for his excellent
commencement of the work, which is well done.--J. A. H.-B.]

Later, in the second schedule, Mr R. A. writes: "There has been nothing
to record since the 25th of November." [Last date of schedule.--J. A.
H.-B.] "The Snow Buntings have remained with us all winter. All summer
we had large flocks of Solan Geese, till the first of October; after
that there were a few till the 1st of November; but since then (till
February 7, 1887) _I have not seen one_." [These Solan Geese notes are
always interesting. Perhaps Mr Agnew will devote a separate schedule
to the day-to-day movements of Solan Geese another season.--J. A.
H.-B.] He continues: "On the 24th October I observed very large flocks
of sea-birds, fishing close to the lighthouse. There were all sorts of
them; I could not say how many, but there must have been many hundreds.
We saw them from 9 A.M. till 11 A.M. After that there was not one
to be seen (where did they come from and where did they go?)." [We
believe they simply followed a vast body of fish--young or adult--or
_entomostracæ_, which "showed" on the surface, indicating one of the
strange, or little understood, migrations of fish, or _entomostracæ_.
One or two of the birds shot, and contents of their stomachs examined,
might have explained a great deal. Possibly Mr Agnew may still be able
to supply a note as to the nature of their food at the time.--J. A.
H.-B.]

_Monach Isles._--D. Georgeson sends two closely written schedules, but,
as before stated, straight across the columns. We will give them here
_in extenso_ as the simplest way of writing them in.

Under date of December 1st, 1886, Mr Georgeson writes to us thus: "I
send you my two last schedules, filled up to date of end of October. I
received intimation of my removal from this station to Sound of Mull,
Tobermory. I expect the 'Signal' daily to take me to my new home. I do
not know what sort of a place it is as regards birds, but if you send
me schedules I hope to be able to give you a report, however short."

[_Note._--In January 1887 Mr Harvie-Brown had an opportunity of
interviewing Mr Georgeson, and having a pleasant chat, at Sound of
Mull Lighthouse. No schedules have come from it, but the site is not
good, and is much hidden by high land to the westward. It gave us much
pleasure, however, to make Mr G.'s acquaintance, and thank him for his
hearty co-operation hitherto at Monach Isles.

We have pleasure here in fully quoting Mr Georgeson's last schedules
from Isles of Monach, where he is succeeded by Mr Joseph Agnew, late
of the Isle of May, who we are sure will find Mr Georgeson's notes of
interest and value.--J. A. H.-B.]

Mr Georgeson writes as follows: "Since my last report to you ending
December 1885, I have had little to add in the way of forwarding your
useful work regarding migration, and of the numbers and varieties of
sea birds passing or frequenting this station. I notice a visible
decrease annually in the numbers of both land and sea birds, a decrease
attributed to the island not being so quiet as it was some years ago,
before the lighthouse was built, when the birds had the island all to
themselves, and there was no one residing on it, but was only used by
the natives for grazing purposes. Now the keepers and their families
going round the island, the small birds are disturbed at the period of
incubation.

"In January and February a few Terns, Snow Buntings, Twites, and Rock
Pipits struck the lantern, the wind being south. Of sea birds during
those months I observed a few Solan Geese, Scarts, Kittiwakes, Eider
Ducks, Teal Ducks, etc.; but as the breeding season came on they left.

"In March a pair of Shielducks visited the island, and after remaining
a few days, left, returning again in April (presumably the same pair),
and after nesting and having two young ones, the four left in August.
No Teal nor Eiders bred here this season.

"In June a large flock of Pictarnies, a few Stonechicks, Ringnecks
(?), Sand Larks, and Twites came to the island (but not in such large
numbers as in former seasons). Wind from south to west. They left with
their young in August, the few I saw leaving flying in a north-easterly
direction." [This is somewhat contrary to experiences, and no doubt is
due to local peculiarities of the configuration of the Outer Hebrides
and land communications with the mainland, but our data appear too
scanty to explain this. In this case "the few Mr Georgeson saw flying
in a N.E. direction," was with a wind from south to west. Possibly they
do this to catch up the Skye coast, or sooner reach the shelter of the
east coast of the Outer Hebrides.--J. A. H.-B.] "In June also a pair of
Tysties," continues Mr Georgeson, "came to the island, and left with
the young in August.

"On the 2d September, wind N.E., all the Pictarnies left the island,
flying in a northerly direction." [This again almost seems to indicate
a movement towards the north first, before returning south or in a
south-easterly direction. Future careful reports on directions of
flight here and of winds at the time can scarcely fail to prove of
interest.--J. A. H.-B.] "On the 4th of September four Ravens--a male
and female with their two young--I observed resting on the island,
but, after remaining a short time, they flew in an easterly direction
towards the mainland. On the 9th September we had a severe gale--wind
variable--and the island is quite deserted by land birds, the only ones
remaining being a few Twites. I caught several during the gale dying
from exposure. The only sea birds I can see are a few Gannets fishing
for food; but they too leave in the evening in the direction of Barra.
A few pairs of Curlews and a few Herring Gulls returned with their
young. On the 17th September I observed a solitary Heron feeding around
the shore; and I witnessed a strange incident in connection with it.
On the 22d of the same month, while walking round the island, I heard
strange cries coming nearer and nearer from a southerly direction, when
the Heron got up a few yards from me, and flew in the direction of the
cries, it being hazy at the time, and after the lapse of a few minutes
I noticed three coming out of the mist evidently overjoyed at seeing
one another. They flew round and round, for some time, and then flew
off in a north-easterly direction--the wind E.N.E., fresh.

"On the night of the 4th and 5th October a great number of birds struck
the lantern, strange to say the greater number of them being Snipe;
but there were also Mavises, Blackbirds, 'Marsh' (_i.e._, Meadow)
Pipits and Rock Pipits, and a few Pictarnies, all seemingly young birds
of the year; but I was surprised to see the Pictarnies, as they had
all left, and none had been seen about the island for some time; and
these have evidently been migrating. The island appears to be quite
deserted by land birds in the day time. On the night mentioned the
wind was variable--from S.E. to S.W., with drizzling rain. On the 7th
October I observed a large flock of Shielducks coming from N.E., and
after resting a short time, they got up and flew off south, the wind
being at the time S.W." [Report ending 31st October 1886. Here ends Mr
Georgeson's notes on Monach.]

[Now Mr Joseph Agnew takes up the tale, and we make no excuse for
quoting his letters: "We had to leave the May a day after the time
I expected when I last wrote you, and therefore had not time to
visit you at Dunipace, when passing Larbert on our way to Oban." On
arriving at Monach Mr Agnew expresses surprise at the universal and
populous distribution of the Rock Pipit at all stations, S., E., N.,
and W., where he has been. He then describes the Tystie (or Toistie
of Monach), _i.e._, the Black Guillemot, both in winter and summer
plumage. Mr Agnew sends a schedule dating December 3d to 30th, contents
of which will be found under species further on, and where Monach is
mentioned, any remarks under species may be read as continuous with Mr
Georgeson's Diary.--J. A. H.-B.]

_Rona_ (_i.e._, _South Rona_).--Messrs Dunnet and M'Gaw send two fairly
well-filled schedules, strictly adhering to columnar arrangement.

_Kyleakin._--D. MacCulloch and John Clyne send one well-filled
schedule, but light, dating February 1st, 1886, to January 1st, 1887.

_Skerryvore.-_-Thomas Dawson and William Charleson send three
well-filled schedules, dating January 27th to December 9th, 1886. Mr
D. writes: "Birds scarce here all summer. Not one seen between 7th May
and 13th September. On September 6th a Scart was seen by us fishing
about the rock. Sometimes it came ashore for a short rest, then into
the water again. Did not appear to be a bit frightened. We amused
ourselves casting stones at it for a time, still it did not go away far
from us. It is the first we have seen of the season; not one single
Scart seen here during the breeding season. We left it after a time.
At night, after lighting time, a strange noise was heard on the top
dome. One of the keepers--Mr Charleson--went aloft and found the Scart
sitting very comfortably on the cage for cleaning the chimney, with
his head under his wing, asleep. He never saw Charleson coming to it;
but the latter made a grab at it, but missing his mark, the bird got
clear off. Several Eiders are seen now, mostly males (October 1st,
1886); one flock of thirteen yesterday, and only one female among them.
Numbers of Solan Geese seen every day here fishing." [We would be glad
of a schedule or two devoted entirely to Solan Geese and their daily
movements.--J. A. H.-B.]

_October._--"On the 6th a great 'rush' of small birds here last night.
Never saw anything like it nor so many different kinds. They commenced
to strike the lantern at 8.30 P.M. on the 5th; and continued all
morning of 6th. I cannot give you any idea of numbers, but no doubt
hundreds were flying round the light. Most in number were Skylarks
and Thrushes; Wheatears next; and a great number of Snipes were seen.
I have noted in the schedule the actual number of the different kinds
we saw on the lantern and the time they struck, but no doubt many more
of the same species hovered round the light all night. I saw several
Sand Larks, but only one struck. Wind S.E. to S., rain and haze. They
nearly all struck on the north side of the lantern. I was standing on
the balcony when the Woodcock struck, and it fell stunned at my feet,
and I caught it before it had time to recover. This is the only one
I have ever seen here. I may mention the names of the species seen
so far as recognised: Mountain Thrushes, Common Thrushes, Skylarks,
Titlarks, Wheatears, Blackbirds, Woodcock (first seen here by me),
Robins, Wrens, Redstarts, Ring Ouzels (Mountain Thrushes are therefore
either Fieldfares or Red wings), 'Oxeyes' (and another small bird a
stranger to me)." [The Oxeye--so-called--is really a Gold-crested Wren,
as described: and the other small bird, from description, is probably
a Willow-Warbler (or Willow Wren).--J. A. H.-B.] In the same letter Mr
Dawson encloses an insect [the Silver Gamma Moth.--J. A. H.-B.], and
says: "I enclose an insect. I got it this morning stuck to the side of
the kitchen window. We don't know what it is. It has likely wandered
off here with the rush of birds the two previous nights. It appeared to
be quite dormant when I found it (date of 7th October).

"Great numbers of birds again last night, but not nearly so many as the
previous night, and fewer species. Wind N., and heavy rain all night
and morning. After this Mr Charleson is to take note of the birds along
with myself, so will get on better. The second schedule will be soon
filled up."

Under date of December 19th, Messrs Dawson and Charleson say; "The
Gannets have all left us some weeks back. The scarcity of fish is no
doubt the cause."

_Dhuheartach._--William Davidson and Jas. M'Guffie send us four
well-filled bulky schedules, as Dhuheartach has, along with Skerryvore,
participated in the rush of 5th and 6th October, which appears to have
been so universal all over the East Coast also. By the schedules the
species appear to have been much the same as at Skerryvore--Larks,
Mavis (many young), Goldcrests, Snipe, Fieldfare, Wheatear, Robins,
Firetails (Redstarts), Starlings, Blackbirds, young Swallows, and
several Lapwings--the Larks predominating by hundreds, and the Mavis by
tens over the others, so far as observed.

_Skervuile._--John Ewing sends two well-filled schedules from 7th
February to 26th December 1886. Under 25th March he says; "There has
been an abundance of Gulls and Boatswains' birds up to _October_." On
April 15th Solans are noted as seen night and morning during July,
August, and September. Rush is also distinctly participated in on 3d,
4th, 5th, 6th. (See under species for details.)

_Rhinns of Islay._--Peter Anderson and Mr Ducat.--Besides sending five
regular schedules, fully filled up, Mr Anderson has also, in a very
neat and efficient way, kept a still more minute day-to-day record on
his own plan. We now have these for the month of February. When we have
a schedule of this description for every month in the year, we think
it may prove desirable to publish the series _seriatim et literatim_.
The statistics could not fail to be serviceable. Thousands of Larks
seen passing south for days during the October rush. They write; "We
think if you had been here on the night of 5th and morning of the 6th
October, you would have seen migration to your heart's content. I have
never seen anything like it before. About 7 P.M. they commenced, and
increased until 10, when it was something grand to see, and continued
up to 2 A.M. of the 6th, making a perfect concert of sounds--even the
drums were not awanting--as the small birds striking the lantern and
dome answered for the small drum, and the larger ones at odd times for
the big drum. I will here mention a list of as many of the birds as I
could distinguish, but I will make no attempt at numbers, as they were
simply innumerable:--Redwings, Lapwings, Larks (these three the most
numerous), Thrush, Missel-Thrush, Moorhen, Robins, Goldcrests, one
Blackbird, one Teal Duck (both latter caught), Blackbirds, Water-rail,
Terns, Starlings, and numerous other kinds I did not know. Weather
thick, with haze and rain: wind S.E. to E. The birds seemed all to be
flying against the wind. One Woodcock seen. Last night, 7th October, we
had scarcely a bird, although it was a night of rain; but the wind was
from the north." [This account of the great rush is most interesting
and valuable.--J. A. H.-B.] "The rush continued till 2 A.M. of the 6th,
but then eased a good deal, but numbers kept flying on till daylight.
There were numerous Moths about the lantern on the nights of the 5th,
6th, and 7th." [Schedules give more interesting items.--J. A. H.-B.] Mr
Anderson adds the note: "I forgot to mention that the weather has for
the past few days been very close and warm. On the morning of the 5th,
at 2 A.M., the glass stood outside at 62½°, and has been about 60° for
several days, with very heavy rain." On the 18th December occurs the
following note: "On the 18th I was inland for a mile or so, and saw two
flocks of Larks (about 1000 each), and a flock of Starlings of from
1200 to 1400. I never saw so many Snipe on this island before. By the
22d thaw had set in, and they were all gone." [_Note._--When we were
shooting in Ardnamurchan in January 1887, though Woodcock were fairly
plentiful, we never saw Snipe so scarce in Mingary Park. The suddenness
of the rush, short space of time occupied, and complete departure south
in December at once accounts for this.--J. A. H.-B.]

_Lochindaul._--James Edgar sends three well-filled schedules, and
observes that no schedules appear from our Report to have been sent
for some years back. We are very glad again to receive schedules
from Lochindaul, which appears to be a favourable situation for
observations. Mr Edgar's last station was N. Unst, whence he sent us
schedules. Mr Edgar says of Lochindaul: "Very few birds are attracted
to this light, owing to part of the light being red, and the land
side of the lantern being dark, although there are plenty of birds in
the vicinity of the station. Most of the observations I have made are
during the day time, and I only entered each species the first and last
time seen, and any unusual flocks seen during the season. I gave up
taking notes at end of October, owing to illness, and I was invalided
from then till recently" (dated 17th January 1887), "which accounts for
the lateness of sending in the schedules."

_Lamlash._--David M. Scott and Robert Brown send a light schedule,
except on the 6th October, when they appear fully to have participated
in that extraordinary rush. "We could make out Curlews, Lapwings,
Thrushes, Goldcrests, Linnets, Blackbirds, Wrens--the largest number
ever seen in one night at this station;" further proving the magnitude
and wide-spread character of the 1886 autumn migration, as well as its
singularly compressed nature.

_Turnberry._--Andrew Nisbet and William Begg send three well-filled
day-to-day schedules. Curiously enough, the "rush" of October--which is
quite the feature of our 1886 Report--is only comparatively emphasised
here; but while the emphasis is moderate, it is also quite equally
pronounced when compared with records at the same station. Thus,
whilst only 1, 2, or 3 birds struck, or were seen at the lantern all
through the season, a spring movement was more observable about the
10th February; and the autumn migration rush was emphasised by 13 birds
at the lantern on the famous 5th and 6th October, and 5 the following
night. Thus, comparatively speaking, the rush was also apparent on that
date as elsewhere. All returns at other dates are light.

_Corsewall._--An _unsigned schedule_, well filled and neatly executed,
to hand, dating February 4th to October 29th, shows an early spring
migration, also in February, of Starlings, Thrushes, and Larks; and "a
great rush" of Blackbirds, Thrushes, and Larks (both male and female),
and Goldcrests, began to strike at 9 P.M., and continued till daylight.
A great many killed of all kinds. Upwards of 100 got in the morning.
S.E. fresh breeze, fog and rain. Short, sharp, sudden, and vast, as we
do not find another entry till 23d.

_Portpatrick._--Mr James Beggs has the remark [which we perfectly agree
with, and the reasons for which will shortly appear more decidedly,
we believe, when Mr Service treats of the migration of birds in the
Solway district, in his intended "Fauna of Solway."--J. A. H.-B.]
to the effect that: "The migration of birds again very slight this
season. As I remarked to you in my schedule last year, I think it is
our prevailing winds from the west which keep the birds inland. You
will see in my above notes where the winds are easterly." The easterly
winds referred to occur throughout all the dates where any occurrences
are recorded, _viz._, on the 4th and 15th September, October 4th, 5th,
to 9th, and January 7th, 1887, at which latter date a "great rush" of
Larks, coming from the N.W. and going S.E., is recorded. Again, the
October 4th, 5th, and 6th rush is distinctly recorded. _Not a single
record is entered under a westerly wind._ They naturally pick up (catch
up) the trend of the coast south of Clyde in any winds, but _normal
westerly winds_ may--and do--confine them to _normal routes more than
easterly winds do_. Thus, if we had had no easterly winds at this
station at all, the probability is that _no migration_ would have been
observed; but the _more normal_ route _more inland_ would have been
followed. Locally, Mr E. Service is working at these routes with good
effect.

_Mull of Galloway._--Alex. Murray and John M'Quarrie send three
excellent returns. Considerable movements of birds are noted, but again
October 4th and 5th have pre-eminence and accentuation.

_Little Ross._--Neil M 'Donald and Robert M'Intosh send three
well-filled schedules--every line filled. Under date of 6th December,
N. M'D, writes: "I beg to send you two schedules, which are all we
have. We are marking the birds as we see them on long sheets of paper
lined off like the schedules, but when copying them off, I find I
have more than will fill another schedule during October and up to
date. Please forward two more. Trusting our schedules will meet your
approval, etc." [Yes, they are excellent, and we have three fully
filled, showing the same results and rush marked off in October as
elsewhere. Birds seem well known; yet I think a copy of Johns' Birds
should be sent here and to several more stations.--J. A. H.-B.]


Separate Report under Genera and Species.

Turdidæ.--Thrushes, Dipper, Blackbirds, Fieldfare, Ouzels, Redwings,
"Mavises."--We find records principally of "Thrushes" between 4th and
22d February at Skervuile (one only on 9th), and at Turnberry and
Corsewall (both south of Clyde), on seven dates, but all light. [Thus
most of the February early migrants presumably turned across from Clyde
to Forth,--J. A. H.-B.] Prevailing wind, S.W. and S.

_In March._--Light records at Turnberry on 8th of Thrushes; and north
of Clyde single birds at Rona, Skye, and at Skerryvore on 12th, 22d,
and 24th. Light records at Skervuile of Fieldfares and Blackbirds on
21st and 25th, and single record of Blackbird at Turnberry (S. of
Clyde) on 25th. [Thus while as usual most of the prominent stations
report, the returns both N. and S. of Clyde are light, and almost too
general to utilise as indications of routes.--J. A. H.-B.] Prevailing
wind in March, strong or light, S. and S. easterly. In May--3d, 4th,
and 5th--we have a number of Thrushes and Starlings reported from Mull
of Galloway in fog and mist, along with Starlings--twenty-two killed on
3d, and eleven on 4th. Wind, strong south breeze.

_In Autumn._--First movements noted are 26th and 27th of August at
Rona, Skye, of "Mountain Thrushes" (probably Ring Ouzels). [This
name is applied to both the Redwing, Fieldfare, and Ring Ouzel, in
different parts of Scotland, but most correctly to the latter. The
date also is more in favour of the record of Ring Ouzels, as about
the dates mentioned they begin to frequent gardens and orchards for
berries, etc.--J. A. H.-B.] And at Mull of Galloway and Little Ross, of
Blackbirds and Ring Ouzels. Wind, S. and S.E., fresh to strong. [These
are also probably migrants from the vicinity of the stations.--J. A.
H.-B.] In September a flight of Thrushes on the 4th at Portpatrick.
Indication at Kyleakin (N. of Clyde), on 24th, of same species; also
on 13th, at Mull of Galloway, of Blackbirds, and larger numbers in
flocks at latter station on 22d and 24th. Redwings are noted as
early as 20th at Rhinns of Islay only. But in October the numbers of
records are very great, too numerous to give in detail. Thus we find
the following stations participate:--Skerryvore, ten dates between
5th and 19th. Rush distinct on the 5th, 9 P.M., till 4.30 A.M. on
6th, of "Mountain" and Common Thrushes. Wind, light S.E., and heavy
rain. One Blackbird on 6th. At Dhuheartach on 1st, 5th, 6th, 7th, and
8th. Records of Mavis, 100 all night of 5th, 6th, S.S.E.; Fieldfare,
one on 6th; one male Blackbird on 8th; wind N.W. Single Thrush on
8th. [Shows the compressed nature of the rush and preponderance, as
elsewhere, of Common Thrush.--J. A. H.-B.] At Skervuile, rush also on
5th and 6th of Thrushes, Fieldfares (the latter in minority). Rush
also, however, of Blackbirds noted; entries extend from 2d to 31st, but
only on five dates, and all light except on 5th and 6th. [Emphasises
above remarks.--J. A. H.-B.] At Rhinns of Islay records on ten dates
between 4th and 28th, of Redwings. [Query, were these not Thrushes,
or in some of the returns have not Redwings and Thrushes equally
done service? _N.B._--The Redwing is _red_ beneath the wing, and the
Thrush or Mavis _yellow_. No "Thrushes" so named appear in the Rhinns
of Islay schedules, so perhaps "Redwings" do duty?--J. A. H.-B.]
Blackbirds--quite a number appear under dates of 22d, 25th, 27th, and
28th. At Lochindaul also, while Thrushes seem to have been little
observed at the time of the rush, there are a few records, 19th, 27th,
and 28th, and one of Blackbirds on 27th. [The position of Lochindaul
(Station CIII.) may sufficiently account for this; nor, however, does
the rush appear quite so heavy at Rhinns of Islay (CII.) as it does at
Skerryvore (XCIII.), nor at Dhuheartach (XCIV.), whilst Dhuheartach is
lighter than Skerryvore. This may or may not indicate that the great
body of the migrants have passed to the westward of Rhinns of Islay and
even of Dhuheartach, making for the Irish coast. It will be interesting
to note what our Irish Committee report upon this.--J. A. H.-B.]

At Turnberry (S. of Clyde) records date 2d, 3d, 5th, 6th, and 18th, but
all are quite light, and no rush whatever is apparent on 5th and 6th
October, only records of one, two, three, or four Thrushes, Blackbirds,
and Ring Ouzels being entered.

At Corsewall (S. of Clyde), 2d and 3d of Thrushes (only three or
four each time), but "great rush" of Blackbirds on 5th, and of the
latter single records on 23d and 29th. Winds as generally--easterly.
[_Note._--Thus routes of Blackbirds and Thrushes appear to have
been rather different in 1886. _Compare_ with reports from other
stations.--J. A. H.-B.]

At Mull of Galloway.--Bush indicated pretty distinctly, and striking
all night of 5th, mingled with a few Blackbirds, some of which were
killed at light. Large flocks seen all day of 6th. Dropping in up to
28th.

At Little Boss, on 3d October, four Thrushes--S.E., fresh--three
killed; haze.

So much for the October rush at all stations yielding returns; and we
have enlarged upon items here as illustrative of the whole general
character of the autumn migration of 1886.

In November, migration of Thrushes (_vera_) almost _nil_. Solitary
returns on 24th from Skerryvore, and from Turnberry and Little Boss.
But a few more records of Redwing, Fieldfare, and Blackbird at same
station. In December one single Thrush on 8th at noon at Dhuheartach;
and a few Blackbirds and Redwings on 17th, 18th, and 20th at Rhinns of
Islay. _No returns of Turdidæ S. of Clyde._ No returns of _Turdidæ_
anywhere in January 1887.

Saxicolinæ.--Wheatears (often called "Stonechats;" a name more
correctly applied to another species of the group), Stonechat (a small
bird having the head black in the male and dark-brown in the female),
Whinchat, Redstart, etc.

_In Spring_, Stonechats (?) arrived at Rona, Skye--[no doubt
_these_ are Wheatears; but it is hard to say in all cases which are
intended.--J. A. H.-B.]--on the 24th March, and on same date at
Skervuile--S.S.E. breeze, hazy; also on the same date at Turnberry. On
4th of April, one pair arrived to breed at Rhinns of Islay, followed by
several pairs on the 5th and 6th, which remain to breed. On 30th April,
and one or two other dates, straggling birds seen at Dhuheartach, and
again at Turnberry.

_In Autumn._--Wheatears are recorded by name (correct name) at Butt of
Lewis and at Little Ross; and what are also all probably Wheatears, but
called (erroneously) Stonechats (see also last Migration Report, p.
100), at Rona, Skye, Dhuheartach, Turnberry, and Mull of Galloway, all
on dates between 18th and 31st August. Rushing on 21st and 22d South
of Clyde, continuing all through September, with a rush at Skerryvore;
but only two at Dhuheartach on 13th. Migration continued up to, but not
beyond, the 7th October, and participated in the rush of 5th and 6th at
Skerryvore, and also at Skervuile, thus apparently taking a different
route from that chosen by the Thrushes (see _antea_, _Turdidæ_).
The only other species mentioned are a few Whinchats; a Redstart at
Dhuheartach on 23d May, three ditto at Mull of Galloway on 27th August,
two ditto at Little Ross on 13th September, and one ditto at Skerryvore
on 6th October.

Silviinæ.--Robins, Blackcap, Blue Throated Warbler, Whitethroat,
"Redbreast."--In Spring, two records only, at Rona, Skye, and Skervuile
on 24th and 25th March. [All through this Report there seems to be
a similarity of dates of occurrences at these two stations, even in
single records. Why they should apparently be so much _in touch_
with one another is not easily understood at present; unless it is
simply similarity of positions affecting local migrations in a similar
way.--J. A. H.-B.]

_In Autumn._--August 19th and 27th, singles. September.--Robins from
Rhinns of Islay, Lochindaul to Lamlash (N. of Clyde), and Turnberry and
Little Ross (S. of Clyde) all light. In October no great rush apparent
anywhere, ranging in small numbers at all stations through the month.

One record in November at Little Ross; and four dates, 17th to 20th
December, at Skerryvore and Rhinns of Islay, at which dates there
appears to have been some slight movement.

Phylloscopinæ.--Goldcrest, "Gold-Crested Wren," Willow Warbler, "Willow
Wren."--In Spring, two solitary Willow Wrens killed at Rhinns of Islay.
"Great numbers of different kinds of Wrens on 11th May at Corsewall"
[Please send wings. We have only one _true_ Wren in Britain. The
Goldcrest and Willow "Wrens" (_sic_) belong to the Warbler group.--J.
A. H.-B.]

No records again till September, from 5th to 22d. Goldcrests are given
on nine dates; but very few at Rhinns of Islay, Turnberry, Corsewall,
and Little Ross.

Many entries in October. A "great flock" of Goldcrests at Little Ross;
many struck and killed. Eight also appeared on 4th, 15th, and 8th at
same place.

Accentorinæ.--Hedge Sparrow, or Blue Janet.--One on 25th March at
Skerryvore, and one at Butt of Lewis (N., fresh breeze, cloudy) on 23d
September.

Acrocephalinæ.--Reed Warbler, Sedge Warbler.--At Dhuheartach one Sedge
Warbler. On September 3d, one ditto at Little Ross, and one same place
on 7th October; wind in each case light S.E.

Paridæ.--Titmice.--In April one Titmouse (?) seen on 27th and 28th at
Turnberry; and at same place, one on 10th May.

In August a number at Mull of Galloway 22d, and all night of 30th.
Occurrences between 22d and 30th, and on 27th at Turnberry. On
September 1st and 3d a few at Turnberry, and two or three on 21st and
24th, same place. In October one bird on 6th at same place.

Troglodytidæ.--Common Wren, "Kitty Wren."--Two dates in April at
Turnberry; one on 6th May at Skerryvore.

_In Autumn._--Two at Corsewall on 21st, and five on 22d; and three on
20th at Little Ross, and one on 22d of September. In October, single
records at Rona, Skye, 15th; Skerryvore, 6th; Rhinns of Islay, 2d;
Lochindaul, 8th; and two, same place, on 22d. Latest two on 13th
November at Little Ross, and a few other scattered records.

Motacillidæ.--Wagtails.--In March, a pair on 21st at Lochindaul; in
May, one Wagtail at Dhuheartach, on the 8th--strong S.W., clear; and
one Yellow Wagtail, same place, on 23d--light E. airs.

In August two "Grey Wagtails" [are these grey, or have they any yellow
about them?] at Dhuheartach on 27th; and eighty-nine Wagtails on
28th--a rush. A number of entries in schedule for September, ranging
from 1st to 24th, at Dhuheartach, Rhinns of Islay, Lochindaul, Mull of
Galloway, and Little Ross,--bulking in largest numbers south of Clyde,
twenty to thirty, on 1st September,--a rush co-existing with that at
Rhinns of Islay above on 28th August. A flock at Little Ross on 27th
September--winds S. and E. In October a number on 9th at Lochindaul;
and a few entries for Lochindaul, Skerryvore, and Little Ross. Two on
19th December at Rhinns of Islay.

Motacillidæ.--Pipits, Meadow Pipits, Rock Pipits, Titlarks,
"Mosscheeper," "Tang Sparrow" (_i.e._, Rock Pipit), "Marsh Pipits"
(_i.e._, Meadow Pipits).--One record at Skervuile in February; one in
March (20th), same place.

_In Autumn._--All day "Mosscheepers" at Butt of Lewis [are these Meadow
or Rock Pipits?], and scattered birds on four dates of Titlarks at
Dhuheartach. In October a rush of Titlarks, 5th and 6th, at Skerryvore;
but only single or light returns from Dhuheartach at same time;
also two only at Skervuile all the month. Two on 19th December at
Dhuheartach.

Muscicapidæ.--Flycatchers.--The only records are in August, on 27th,
29th, and 30th, at Mull of Galloway. S.E., fresh, or fog.

Hirundinidæ.--Swallows, Martins, Sand Martins.--In April
24th--"Swallows first seen" at Corsewall; four at noon at Rhinns of
Islay, one with a speckled head, the first seen, on 27th. In May, a
rush appears on 7th, and again on 6th to 8th, at Rhinns of Islay and at
Lochindaul. A few single records at Dhuheartach, Lamlash, and Little
Ross; one at Kyleakin on 26th June--all of Common Swallow.

Autumn movements all September recorded from Rhinns of Islay; "flocks"
at Mull of Galloway on 3d; and at Little Ross, "large flock" on 14th.
Flocks all day on 4th September at Mull of Galloway, and other notices.

Fringillidæ.--Finches, Linnets, Redpoles, Siskins, Sparrows, Tree
Sparrows, Brambling or Mountain Finches, Chaffinches. Bullfinches.--In
February one Bullfinch at Kyleakin; snow on island. One Cock Sparrow at
Dhuheartach on 27th May; light E., clear; on rocks. One Linnet, same
place, June 26th.

In August flocks flying about all day on 22d at Lochindaul, and small
flock at Little Ross on 19th. Linnets and Grey Linnets, 2d, 6th, and
13th September, at Butt of Lewis (probably Twites or Mountain Linnets),
Rona, Skye, and Little Boss. In October slight rushes between 7th, 8th,
9th, of Linnets. One male Chaffinch at Rhinns of Islay. One Siskin at
Butt of Lewis on 29th. Hundreds again in November at Kyleakin, and
forty to fifty on 14th and 21st at same place; sixty on 19th December;
Grey Linnets at Lochindaul. Occurrences date in October from 4th to
28th in numbers ranging from one to ten (on 5th, 6th, and 8th at
Dhuheartach, and on 20th at Turnberry), twenty (on 8th at Rhinns of
Islay), and eleven to forty (on 28th at Turnberry). Direction of winds,
S. and E. and S.E. throughout. No more records except one bird at
Little Ross on 19th November.

Emberizidæ.--Buntings, Snow Buntings.--Almost all the returns relate to
Snow Buntings. On the 15th and 17th May a single bird was found on the
island at Rhinns of Islay, and one reporter adds the remark, "very late
to be seen here." Wind variable, strong.

_In Autumn_ there was a "rush" of Snow Buntings past Skerryvore at
or about midnight of the 27th September; wind strong W., haze and
rain. No notice of this rush is taken at Dhuheartach or elsewhere. In
October only two single records, on 14th at Dhuheartach, and 18th at
Rhinns of Islay; and in November light records only at Butt of Lewis,
Dhuheartach, between the 15th and 25th (twenty on the latter date). In
December, thirty Snow Buntings on 14th at Rhinns of Islay "all day."
Not one return from any station south of Clyde. Of Common Bunting or
Corn Bunting we have one record in April at Lochindaul, one on 4th
October at Skerryvore, and one at Lochindaul on the 1st. The Corn
Bunting is not looked upon by us as more than very locally migratory.

Alaudidæ.--Larks.--Of Larks there has been an enormous movement. Absent
entirely in April, June, July, and August; scarcely any in May (only
two entries on 4th and 9th at Turnberry, with light or strong N.E.
breeze).

In September the returns are still very light, indeed almost absent;
but in October during the whole month innumerable records. Larks
appeared at all the following stations sending returns:--Rona,
Skerryvore, Dhuheartach, Skervuile, Rhinns of Islay, Lochindaul,
Turnberry, Corsewall, Mull of Galloway, and Little Ross; but all
notice of them is omitted in schedules from the other stations sending
returns, _viz._:--Butt of Lewis, Monach Isles? _q.v._, Barra Head,
Kyleakin, Rhuvaal, and Lamlash. [We are thus able to locate the stream
with some exactitude.] They appeared to be most abundant at Skerryvore,
and at Dhuheartach, "rushes" and "hundreds;" Skervuile, "rush;" Rhinns
of Islay (on 2d October), "thousands," and on 5th, "numerous." Then
S. of Clyde, "a great rush" at Corsewall; "rush" at Portpatrick (4th
October). All these large movements, except where specified, were on
the nights of 5th and 6th October.

In November only a few slight movements, 24th, 26th, to 29th at
_Kyleakin_ and at _Turnberry_.

In December light again at Dhuheartach, 18th to 27th; but heavy on 18th
and 19th at Rhinns of Islay, 1000 and 100; but these may and probably
were due only to local migration, influenced by severe weather on
mainland.

In January movements also of local importance and not numerous, January
being milder and more open on the West Coast than December; but at
Portpatrick a great rush is described as going from N.W. to S.E., 11
A.M. to 12, during a snowstorm. This may also, however, be only a
local movement still it is interesting as showing the _recognised line
of flight_ spoken of by Mr E. Service. In Ardnamurchan small flocks
appeared at Kilchoan at once on the advent of a severe snowstorm and
S.E. gale of wind--a local movement, of course.

In February many light movements are entered, but none of more than
local interest. These occur at Skerryvore, Rona, Skervuile, Turnberry,
and Corsewall.

Sturninæ.--Starlings.--A considerable movement. In February a number at
Turnberry on 9th, and light returns from Skerryvore, Skervuile, and
Turnberry on other dates, and at Corsewall. A few returns in March,
none in April, two in May, none in June and July. "Rushes" of old
and young in August at Rhinns of Islay on 18th, 19th, and 26th; wind
S.W., fresh, or W., light. Rush also indicated on 22d at Lochindaul;
odd birds only at Skerryvore; 130 at Lochindaul on the 30th. A few
movements in September. South of Clyde--"Great numbers" on 15th at
Portpatrick. North of Clyde--Light movements; eleven, twelve, sixteen
birds at Kyleakin. In October rushes recorded, especially at Skervuile,
Lochindaul, Turnberry, Mull of Galloway, at or about the date of the
general great rush of the year, _viz._, 4th, 5th, 6th, and 8th October.
Light returns in November, and a few in December.

Corvidæ.--Rooks, Ravens, Crows, Carrion Crows, Hooded Crows, Jackdaws,
Grey Crows.--The _Corvidæ_ generally show movements during January
(1887), February (1886), April (Ravens), May (casual Carrion and Grey
Crows or Hoodies), June 26th, 27th, 28th, and 29th, "great numbers of
Crows" all day at Mull of Galloway. August 18th to 27th, of Rooks,
Ravens, Grey Crows, Crows. Great flocks of Rooks on 21st at Lochindaul,
as also on 24th September no very heavy entries at any stations, but
"dense flock" on 21st October at Lochindaul, and sixty on the 20th same
place. Only one Crow seen all November, and that at Butt of Lewis, the
only return in all that month. 500 Crows at Rhinns of Islay on 18th
December--no doubt a local migration. In January (1887), from 100 up to
500 at same place, 9th, 10th, and 17th--also local, no doubt.

Cypselidæ.--Swift, "Cran," "Black Swallow."--Only one solitary record
of one Swift on 27th August at Butt of Lewis. Wind S.W., fresh.

Cuculidæ.--Cuckoo.--Records: At Lochindaul, arrived 6th May. Wind light
S., clear, "flying S.W."

Also at Lochindaul, one rested on the rocks at 7 P.M. on the 6th July.
Light W., clear.

Strigidæ.--Very few records of any Owls--At Dhuheartach, on 4th May, an
Owl rested on the rock. Fresh S. and fog.

At Mull of Galloway a Grey Owl seen on 5th September, and again at same
place on 21st October one Grey Owl came to the light in pursuit of some
small birds.

Falconidæ.--Eagle, Hawks, Kestrel Hawks, Sparrow Hawks, Buzzards, Game
Hawk or Falcon.--[Merlins are not once named, but no doubt some of the
"Sparrow-Hawk" entries really apply to the Merlin.--J. A. H.-B.]

In May.--A Kestrel on 5th at Dhuheartach, and a Buzzard on 23d, both
flying east, with E. wind. A Sparrow Hawk at Rhinns of Islay.

_In Autumn_, a few records of Hawks, Game Hawk (Rona, Skye), etc.,
at four or five stations in August, and single birds in September,
including Buzzard and Falcon at Rhinns of Islay on 20th. Also single
birds at Skerryvore and Dhuheartach, including a "Black Hawk" on 10th
October at the former. One record at Butt of Lewis of a Sparrow Hawk on
19th November. There are fewer records of Hawks than usual. One Eagle
seen at Rona 2d January 1886.

Pelecanidæ.--Solan Geese.--First seen at Skervuile on 15th April. Light
N. wind; next at Rhinns of Islay, 100 in flocks, from 4 to 11 A.M. on
the 11th May, and great numbers on 27th, flying N. in the forenoon, and
again on 31st. E.N.E. wind. In June six seen at Lochindaul, and a few
at Little Ross. The migration of Gannets appears to have been quite
intermittent and uncertain here and on the N.W. coast.

By August 8th, at Rhinns of Islay, several young seen; and by 15th to
18th in hundreds all day. Intermittent in numbers, 16th (some) to 30th
(numbers), and 31st (all day) at Lochindaul. None entered again till
9th and 11th October at Lochindaul.

Ardeidæ.--Herons.--One record in February at Skerryvore, sitting on
rock on 13th. Wind fresh W., and rain. One record in July at Rhinns of
Islay, flying S.W.; W., clear on 16th. One record in August at Little
Ross on 19th. Singles or pairs at four stations, _viz._, Butt of Lewis,
Skerryvore, Rhinns of Islay, and Little Ross, on four different dates.
Two in October at Rhinns of Islay, and two in December at same place.
None of these appear to us at present to have any special significance.

Anatidæ.--Ducks, Geese, Swans.--In Spring two Eider Ducks at
Lochindaul, swimming near the shore on 29th March. [It seems worth
while to record the appearances of Eiders, owing to their wonderful and
yearly increase in the Outer Hebrides within, our recollection since
1870, and earlier.--J. A. H.-B.]

_In Autumn_, at Skerryvore, four seen on 14th, and at Dhuheartach one
Drake on 16th, and at Lochindaul one Duck on 30th. On 1st October two
at Skerryvore, S.W., strong breeze; and a pair on the 20th at same
place. In November two males and three females at Rhinns of Islay on
the 4th, and two females and one young male at Skerryvore on 15th.

_Stock Duck or_ Shieldrake.--One on 8th March at Rhinns of Islay, S.E.
breeze. Very occasional entries of Ducks (Wild Duck) in April at Rhinns
of Islay, from three to ten at a time.

Grey Geese [probably White-fronted.--J. A. H.-B.] on 12th and 25th at
Rhinns of Islay. Wind northerly and westerly. One Widgeon at Lochindaul
on 16th September. A few scattered notices of Geese, or Grey Geese, in
October at Rona, Skye, (six) on 12th, at Rhinns of Islay (Large Goose),
and at Kyleakin. In November 40 Geese at Rona, and flocks, 46 to 50,
flying S. on 4th at Rhinns of Islay; 100 on 5th, flying S.; wind S.E.,
fresh. All other lighter records, flying east, with S.W. strong breeze.
Barnacle Geese, five on 1st November at Rhinns of Islay rested on
island, and one seen on 3d at Butt of Lewis, and five on 18th December
at Rhinns of Islay, with "first snow." Also records of Teal (all in
October), 40 Brent Geese at Rhinns of Islay on 6th, and 33 and 30 "Wild
Geese" at same place on 20th and 21st January 1887.

Columbidæ.--Rock Doves, Turtle Doves, Wood Pigeon, &c.--Two records
of seven and fifteen respectively at Rhinns of Islay on 4th and 5th
September. One Turtle Dove shot on 25th at (?)

Rallidæ.--Corncrake or "Land Rail," Water Rail.--At Rhinns of Islay,
first heard 26th May. At Lochindaul, first heard 20th May. At Kyleakin,
first heard 25th May. At Lochindaul, last heard or seen 7th August. At
Rhinns of Islay, one on island 29th September. At Rhinns of Islay, one
Water Rail killed on 5th. Fresh E.

Charadriadæ.--Oyster Catchers, Plovers, Golden Plovers, Grey Plover,
&c.--Oyster Catchers on 15th February at Lochindaul, "first seen this
year." Light, clear, and N.E. One Plover at Rona 24th March, and "Sea
Pies" at Dhuheartach on 23d May, the only entries in Spring.

In August, flock of Golden Plover at Butt of Lewis on 30th. Stray
records at Rhinns of Islay and Lochindaul, and one record of Grey
Plover at former on 20th. S.W., fresh and rain.

Slight movement on 2d and 5th September at Rhinns of Islay of Golden
Plover, and "large number" on 12th at Turnberry, and a number at Little
Ross on 28th. No very heavy records at any time. Flocks in October,
but no records of important movements. Three records in December 17th,
18th, and 19th, at Rhinns of Islay. Few records of Oyster Catchers.

Lapwing, Ring Plover, Dotterel.--Very few light movements in February,
March, and April of Lapwings. Do. in July (one), flocks on 19th August,
and 30 on 30th, 100 at Rhinns of Islay on 14th September, 40 on 24th,
"great numbers" at Turnberry on 14th September, 100 on 21st October at
Rhinns of Islay, and numbers on 9th at Lochindaul all day, and on 11th
and 23d. No records of other species, or of Lapwings, at later dates.

Scolopacidæ.--Woodcock, Snipe, Curlew, Whimbrel.--Whimbrels, or Little
Curlew, or "May Fowl," in small numbers rested for four days on the
rock at Dhuheartach on 11th to 14th May. No other notice, spring or
autumn.

Curlews--February, March, May, single records. In June thirty to forty
alighted on hill near Mull of Galloway, and stayed three weeks and
left. August--Flocks on 19th at Lochindaul; thirty on 19th at Mull of
Galloway; and a flock at Little Ross on 3d. In September many light
records; heaviest, fifty at Rhinns of Islay, and a large flock and a
small flock on 1st at Little Ross, and a large flock of young Curlews
same place on 28th. In October a fair number of records; fifty on 21st
at Rhinns of Islay, and a number on 11th at Lochindaul; twenty at Mull
of Galloway on 20th.

Woodcock--At Lamlash, on 15th March, two birds at 11 A.M.; E., strong;
and on February 1st, one at Kyleakin, 11.30 A.M.; S., with snow on the
island.

No more entries till October, when only three in all at Rona (on 8th),
S.E., fresh, "first seen;" one at Rhinns of Islay (22d), N.E.; and one
at Corsewall (25th), N.E., fresh, "struck and killed." In November, one
bird at Mull of Galloway on 19th; and one, on 20th and 21st December,
at Rhinns of Islay.

Considering that this was a most remarkable year for Woodcock in
Central Scotland, and in the West, in Ardnamurchan, Mull, and many
other places, it is remarkable how few have been seen at lighthouses.
Here in Stirlingshire thirty-five and twenty-eight were killed on
Torwood and Touch in two days. The birds had been quite three weeks
in the country. In January 1887, 33½ couple were shot in seven
days, and we heard of total bags for the season of 160 to one gun
in Ardnamurchan, 400 in Ross of Mull, 260 in north of Mull on one
property, etc., etc.

_Snipe._--A distinct "rush" apparent on the great migration night of
5th October, but all other returns light except "numbers all day" at
Rhinns of Islay on 18th December. The largest "rush" is recorded at
Skerryvore on 5th October, 9.30 P.M. till 3.30 A.M. on the 6th; light
S. wind; eight killed on lantern. All other records quite light;
and Jack Snipe, only three entries, _viz._, on 8th October at Butt
of Lewis, S., fresh; at Skervuile on 6th, light E. and S.; and one
killed at midnight of 22d October at Rhinns of Islay. Of Sandpipers,
Redshanks, Dunlins, etc., there are only eight records in all in March,
May, August (2), September (2), October, and December.

Laridæ.--Gulls we only will mention the more important entries.

Cream-coloured Gulls (Iceland) [or Glaucous Gulls.--J. A. H.-B.]
"seldom seen here," at Rhinns of Islay on January 18th, 1887. February
1886--"Iceland" Gull at same place, flying E., noted as "rare," on 3d;
light N. breeze. In May a Richardson's Skua at Lochindaul on 28th,
and all day there again on 30th July. Thousands of Black Backed Gulls
and other Gulls on 14th September at Rhinns of Islay. "Dirty Allens"
at Dhuheartach on 31st October, and all November numbers of Gulls at
Skervuile. Iceland Gulls at Dhuheartach on 12th December, and again at
Rhinns of Islay on 7th.

Terns arrived on 20th May at Barra Head, and a flock stayed a week at
Little Ross and then left, after the 14th June. There are only a few
scattered records in autumn. The curious unsettled behaviour of Terns,
whether Arctic or Common, is a subject worthy of remark during their
breeding season. They often occupy and then abandon their nesting
places, apparently without any reason, for it is not always that they
leave on account of persecution, though they are much more easily
affected by persecution than almost any other sea birds.

Procellariidæ.--Petrels.--In September several all day at Dhuheartach,
and have been seen "flying south for a week past." [This is an
interesting note as pointing directly to a periodical migration of
the Petrels. Of course how much such may have been simply caused by
increase or diminution of food supply is at present difficult to
determine.--J. A. H.-B.]

In October only two records, but both on 5th and 6th at 11 P.M. and 2
A.M., struck, but were not killed. [They are evidently thus included in
the impulse and great migration of this date. It is noteworthy that we
have all through our past reports seldom received definitive record of
actual migration of the Petrel till now.--J. A. H.-B.]

Colymbidæ.--Divers, Northern Divers, Grebes, etc.--In February, one G.
N. Diver on 7th at Skervuile.

In March, one do. on 24th at same place. In April, no records. In May,
two at Lochindaul on 7th, and on 10th at Kyleakin. No more records
of G. N. Divers till 23d October, when one was seen at Rona, Skye,
"swimming round the island." Then, 16th November, at Skervuile, and
December 26th at same place.

By collecting careful notes on the appearance, residence on our coasts,
and departure from different stations, much might be learned of the
reason why some northern species remain to breed some seasons more than
others, or remain longer resident into the summer months.

Alcidæ.--Puffins, Guillemots, "Tysties," "Rock Birds," etc.,
Razorbills.--In April, a flock of 100 Puffins fishing around Rhinns
of Islay on 3d, and twelve Tysties or Black Guillemots on 10th,
"floating in the sound." In May, Tysties at Lochindaul on the 20th, and
Puffins--twenty--flying west on 2d, at Kyleakin. In June, great numbers
all day of Razorbills fishing around Lochindaul. In August a few all
day on 28th at same place. In September, one young Tystie on 15th at
Dhuheartach, "eating fish on the rocks." In October on 19th and 21st
_continuous flocks_, 6 to 10 A.M., N., light, clear, flying south. This
"rush" of sea birds is almost as sudden and remarkable as that of our
land birds this year. A few still found in December at Skervuile. No
notices South of Clyde.

                            ==============




         WEST COAST OF ENGLAND AND WALES, AND THE ISLE OF MAN.


Schedules and letters of instruction, with stamped envelopes for
wings, were sent to the fifty-three under-mentioned lighthouses and
light-vessels on the West and South-West Coasts of England, the Coasts
of Wales, and the Isle of Man, and returns have been received from the
thirty-nine stations marked with an asterisk.

The following is an enumeration of the stations included in this
section of the Report:--

    No. on
     Map.

  Isle of Man.

     115. L.H. Point of Ayre.
     116. L.H. Douglas Head.
    *117. L.H. Langness,            Robert Clyne.
    *118. L.H. Chickens Rock,       James Black.
    *119. L.V. Bahama Bank,         Charles Johns.

  N. W. England.

    *120. L.H. St Bees,             Henry Nott.
    *121. L.V. Selker,              Daniel Kneale and George Cumming.
    *122. L.V. Morecambe Bay,       Henry Clavell.
    *123. L.V. River Dee,           S. Work and J. Clague.

  North Wales.

     124. L.H. Air.
    *125. L.H. Menai,               Joseph Steer.
    *126. L.H. Skerries Rock,       Wm. Jno. Rees.
    *127. L.H. Holyhead Breakwater, Messrs Prichard, Roberts, and Hughes.
    *128. L.H. South Stack,         W. R. Burgess.
    *129. L.V. Carnarvon Bay,       Messrs Thomas and Hughes.
     130. L.H. St Tudwalls.
    *131. L.H. Bardsey Island,      Thomas Bowen.
    *132. L.V. Cardigan Bay,        Messrs Rees and Comben.

  South Wales.

    *133. L.H. South Bishop,        Alfred Frost.
    *134. L.H. Smalls,              George Baker.
    *135. L.H. Great Castle Head,   W. L. Davis.
    *136. L.H. Milford (St Ann's),  Jas. F. Spicer.
    *137. L.H. Caldy,               Wm. Ebben.
    *138. L.V. Helwick,             Messrs Webber and Howells.

  Bristol Channel.

    *139. L.V. Scarweather,         Messrs Havells and Wynen.
    *140. L.H. Nash (E. ),          Henry Nicholas.
    *141. L.V. Breaksea,            Messrs Walters and Johnson.
    *142. L.H. Flatholm,             W. Dale.
     143. L.V. English and Welsh Grounds.
    *144. L.H. Usk,                  Amos Russell.
     145. L.H. Avon.
    *146. L.H. Burnham,              William Lewis.

  South-Western England.

    *147. L.H. Bull Point,          George Knott.
    *148. L.H. Bideford Bar,        Thomas Gilpin.
     149. L.H. Lundy Island.
     150. L.H. Hartland Point.
     151. L.H. Trevose Head.
    *152. L.H. Godrevy,             Richard Trahair.
    *153. L.H. Longships,           Jno. W. Watson.
    *154. L.V. Sevenstones,         Daniel Norton.
    *155. L.H. Wolf Rock,           J. J. Chavner.
     156. L.H. Scilly.
    *157. L.H. Bishop's Rock,       Jno. W. Troth.
     158. L.H. Lizard Point.
     159. L.H. Falmouth Harbour.
    *160. L.H. Eddystone,           William Ainger.
    *161. L.H. Plymouth Breakwater, Arthur Ebgar.
    *162. L.H. Start Point,         William Jones.
    *163. L.H. Portland Bill,       William Frost.
    *164. L.V. Shambles,            William Clark.
     165. L.H. Anvil Point.
    *166. L.H. Hurst Castle,        G. G. Appleton.
     167. L.H. The Needles.

It is satisfactory to note that not only has the number of stations
making returns been largely augmented, but also that the schedules
have considerably increased in number from most stations.[10] It is
pleasing, too, to observe the pains and evident interest taken by most
of the recorders. Our best thanks are due to the observers above named
for their invaluable co-operation, and for the faithful manner in which
they have filled in their schedules. To Messrs Ainger (Eddystone),
Baker (Smalls), Clyne (Langness), Johnson (Longships), Jones (Start),
Knott (Bull Point), Lewis (Burnham), Nicholas (Nash), Rees (Skerries),
Walters and Johnson (Breaksea), Webber and Howells (Helwick), and
Work and Clague (Dee), additional and especial thanks are due for
sending the wings of the species unknown to them killed or captured
at their respective stations. The result of the first efforts in this
direction has been highly satisfactory; a very considerable number of
wings have been received, representing the following species:--_Turdus
viscivorus_, _T. musicus_, _T. merula_, _T. torquatus_, _Saxicola
œnanthe_, _Pratincola rubetra_, _P. rubicola_, _Sylvia cinerea_, _S.
atricapilla_, _Phylloscopus collybita_, _P. trochilus_, _Acrocephalus
phragmitis_, _Locustella nævia_, _Regulus cristatus_, _Troglodytes
parvulus_, _Motacilla rayi_, _Anthus pratensis_, _A. trivialis_, _A.
obscurus_, _Muscicapa grisola_, _Emberiza miliaria_, _Alauda arvensis_,
_Caprimulgus europæus_, _Cuculus canorus_, _Gallinula chloropus_,
_Tringa alpina_, _T. canutus_, and _Procellaria leucorrhoa_.

[Footnote 10: No less than 84 schedules were returned.]


Diary of the Migratory Movements as Observed at the various Stations.

The sequence of the stations is from north to south. The meteorological
conditions prevailing during the more important movements are extracted
from "The Daily Weather Reports"[11] issued by the Meteorological
Office. The wind and weather, as observed at the stations, are given in
parenthesis; for the weather, the symbols of the Beaufort scale have
been adopted;[12] while the force of the wind ranges from to 12.

[Footnote 11: These Reports cover not only the British Islands, but
also Western Europe, from Bodo and Haparanda to Corunna and Toulon, and
are based upon numerous returns from the area indicated.]

[Footnote 12: Beaufort scale:--B. blue sky; C. detached clouds; D.
drizzling rain; F. fog; G. dark, gloomy; H. hail; L. lightning; M.
misty; O. overcast; P. passing showers; Q. squally; E. rain; S. snow;
T. thunder; U. ugly, threatening; V. visibility, unusual transparency;
W. dew.]

The diction of the recorders has been adhered to as closely as
possible. The identification of the species marked * has been verified
from wings sent to the Committee.


SPRING.

Weather during the Week March 21st to 27th.

  Weather--mild and damp throughout, with southerly (S.E. to S.W.)
  winds, generally moderate, but occasionally strong, especially
  in the W. Barometric pressure has been continuously highest over
  the Continent, and lowest to the westward and north-westward of
  our Islands, the gradients being, as a rule, moderate, and the
  distribution cyclonic. On the 24th, however, the continental
  anticyclone extended to the westward, over our islands, for a
  short time, and the winds backed to eastward at the southern and
  south-western stations, with a fall of temperature; but this change
  was very temporary. Temperature above its normal height--maximum
  varying from 60° to 65° in many places.--(From Weekly Summary in
  "Daily Weather Report," March 29, 1886.)


March 24th.

_Langness_ L.H.--One Willow Warbler on lantern at 2 A.M. (Light E.;
haze.)

_Chickens Rock_ L.H.--Great numbers of Thrushes, Starlings, Wheat ears,
and Larks flying round lantern at 8 P.M. (S., light breeze; haze.)

_Selker_ L.V.--A great many Thrushes, Blackbirds, and Larks about the
light from 12 P.M. to 4 A.M., some striking and going over the side.

_River Dee_ L.V.--One Woodcock killed at 7.45 P.M.

_South Stack_ L.H.--Several Siskins and Wheatears from 12 P.M. to 4
A.M. A few struck and killed. (S.E., 4; C. M. R.)

_Eddystone_ L.H.--Thrushes, Redwings, Starlings, and Wheatears from 8
P.M. to 10.30 P.M. A great quantity struck; 20 birds killed. (S. by W.,
and S.S.W.; C. V.)


March 25th.

_Langness_ L.H.--One Blackbird (female) found dead.

_Chickens Rock_ L.H.--Immense numbers of Starlings, mixed with Thrushes
and Fieldfares, throughout the night. Large numbers killed. (S.S.W.
fresh. Breeze increasing towards morning to a gale; haze and fog.)

_Bahama Bank_ L.V.--Several Larks, Thrushes, and Starlings at 11.30
P.M. four "Grey Birds" killed.

_Selker_ L.V.--A great many Larks, Starlings, and a few Thrushes flying
about the light from 9 to 12 P.M. (Misty.)


March 26th.

_Langness_ L.H.--One female Blackbird killed, and two Redwings killed
on lantern at 4 A.M.

_Chickens Rock_ L.H.--Mr Black says: "The same kind of birds were to be
seen on this date as on the 25th, but very few struck, as the night was
clear."

_St Bees_ L.H.--Several Wheatears on the 26th and 27th.

_Carnarvon Bay_ L.V.--Hundreds of Thrushes and Larks all night, 40
killed and 20 caught; they left at daylight, flying towards the east.
(S.W., 5; G. M.)

_Nash_ (E.) L.H.--A Swallow rested on the lantern from 6.30 A.M. till 7
A.M., and then left and flew N.E.


March 27th.

_Langness_ L.H.--Several Starlings, a Lark, and a Chaffinch on the
lantern from 2 to 4 A.M.

_St Bees_ L.H.--19 or 20 Grey Geese at 6 P.M.

_Selker_ L.V.--Starlings and Blackbirds flying about the light at 3 A.M.

_Carnarvon Bay_ L.V.--10 Lapwings at 11 A.M. flying N.E. (N.W., 6; B.
C. V.)

_Eddystone_ L.H.--Blackbirds, Redwings, and Starlings in great numbers
from 9 P.M. to 3 A.M. (28th); 20 struck and lost over, four caught. (S.
by W., 4; C. R. M.)

_Plymouth Breakwater_ L.H.--One Thrush killed at 3 A.M.


March 29th.

_Langness_ L.H.--One Song Thrush and one Redwing struck between 10 and
12 P.M.

_Selker_ L.V.--A great many Thrushes, Blackbirds, Starlings, and Larks
from 12 P.M. to 2 A.M. One Woodcock struck, and was caught. "There were
also a great many other birds." (S.W., 3; rain, thick mist.)


April 5th.

_Eddystone_ L.H.--Two Red Linnets caught at 9 P.M., and two Ring Ouzels
caught at midnight. (S.W. by W., 5; O. D. M.)


Weather for Week, April 18th to 24th.

  Generally fair, but until the close of the week temperature was
  low for the time of the year, and frosts were experienced in the
  north of Scotland. Barometric depressions prevailed southward and
  south-westward of our Islands until the 23d, when a large and
  well-defined low-pressure system approached us from the southward,
  and passed in a north-westerly direction out into the Atlantic.
  As its centre skirted our south-west coasts, moderate gales from
  the E. or S.E. prevailed in the south of Ireland and south-west of
  England.--(From Weekly Summary, "Daily Weather Report," April 26,
  1886.)


April 19th.

_Langness_ L.H.--A Cuckoo seen at 10 A.M.


April 22d.

_Langness_ L.H.--One Common Wren at 4 P.M.

_River Dee_ L.V.--Flocks of Titlarks and Wagtails passing to the east
during the whole of the day. (E.N.E. to N.N.W., 2; C. V.)

Carnarvon Bay L.V.--Six Black Crows flying east at 8 A.M.

_Nash (E.)_ L.H.--Seven *Wrens at 10.30 P.M., three killed; the others
remained till daylight. (E., 3; B. M.)


April 23d.

_Chickens Rock_ L.H.--A Swallow at 9.30 A.M., flying N.E., and an
Oystercatcher and a Carrion Crow sitting on the rock.

_River Dee_ L.V.--Flocks of Titlarks and Wagtails, and small flocks of
Swallows passing the whole of the day, flying east. Two Wrens and one
Stonechat killed at midnight. (S.E., 3; C. U.)

_Nash (E.)_ L.H.--Between sixty and seventy *Whitethroats at 10 P.M.
twelve killed, the others remaining till daylight. (E., 2; B. M.)

_Eddystone_ L.H.--Hundreds of Wheatears, and many Warblers and
"Flycatcher species" from 9 P.M. to 12 P.M. "Scores against the
glazing; none caught." (S.E., 1; C. M.)


April 29th.

_Nash (E.)_ L.H.--Four Cuckoos passed west from 8.30 to 9 A.M. (S.S.W.,
2; B. C. V.)

_Eddystone_ L.H.--A large number of Wheatears from 2 A.M. to 4 A.M.;
none caught; a great many killed and lost over. (E.N.E., 8; C. P. M.)


May 10th.

_Langness_ L.H.--Mr Clyne, in a letter, stated that on the 10th there
were great numbers of *Whitethroats, *Sedge Warblers, and *Willow Wrens
on the lantern.


May 11th.

_Langness_ L.H.--Two Warblers found dead on lantern; killed between
12 P.M. and daylight. Large flock of Swifts flying north at 8.30 A.M.
(Light E.; haze and showers.)


May 16th.

_Langness_ L.H.--Several Whimbrels at 10 A.M. (Fresh N.E.; clear.)


AUTUMN.

Weather for Week, August 1st to 7th.

  Weather--changeable; the pressure distribution being cyclonic and
  complex at first (causing north-westerly and south-westerly winds),
  then anticyclonic, and afterwards cyclonic, but of a simple type
  (causing southerly to westerly breezes). A small but well-formed
  anticyclone advanced over us from the westward during the 3d and
  4th, but owing to a fall in the barometer in the west it moved
  southwards.--(From Weekly Summary in "Daily Weather Report" for
  August 9th, 1886.)


August 1st.

_Nash (E.)_ L.H.--Two Cuckoos at 11.20 P.M. one killed and one caught
alive. Four Swifts killed between 11 and 12 P.M. Eight Willow Warblers
from 11 to 12 P.M. three killed. (N.W., 3; B. C.)


August 3d.

_Flatholm_ L.H.--Six Chiff-Chaffs at midnight; one killed. (S.S.W., 3;
B. C. M.)

_Eddystone_ L.H.--Large numbers of small birds flying about the lantern
between 10 P.M. and 3 A.M. One Sand-Martin and one Warbler caught.
(N.E., 1; B. C. V.)

_Start Point_ L.H.--*One Ring Ouzel and four small birds--*Willow Wren,
*Whitethroat, *Wheatear, and *Tree Pipit--caught at 3 A.M. One Wren
and a quantity of moths against the light at 11.15 P.M. Mr Jones says:
"The small birds and moths against the light in still weather, is most
times a sign of thick, misty weather to follow." One King Ouzel and
three small birds caught at 11.30 P.M. (N., 2; O. V.)


August 4th.

_Langness_ L.H.--Large number of Dunlin at 5 A.M. (N.W., light.)
Several Swallows at 3 P.M. (S.W., light; clear.)

_Flatholm_ L.H.--Small flock of Swifts at sunset. (W., 3; B. C.)

_Start Point_ L.H.--A flock of about four dozen small birds at 3 A.M.;
eleven captured, including *Yellow Wagtail (young), *Wheatear, and
*Tree Pipit. (N., 4; O. C.)


August 9th.

_Flatholm_ L.H.--Large flock of Swifts at sunset. (W., 2; c.) Eddystone
L.H.--Several small birds, Wheatears, and Warblers, between midnight
and 3 A.M. One "Rock Plover" killed at 2 A.M. Large number of small
birds, Wheatears, and Warblers, from 11 P.M. till 3 A.M. two Sand
Martins and one Rock Plover caught. (S. by W., 2; O. M. R.)


August 10th.

_Langness_ L.H.--Two Whimbrels at 8 A.M.

_Skerries Rock_ L.H.--A few Flycatchers from 8 P.M. to 11 P.M.; two
killed.

_Carnarvon Bay_ L.V.--Flock of Swallows going S.E. at 1 P.M.

_Cardigan Bay_ L.V.--Fourteen Swifts passing to the S.S.W. at 8 P.M.


August 22d.

_Nash (E.)_ L.H.--About ninety *Sedge Warblers round the light at 10.30
P.M. fourteen killed. (E., 1; B. C. M.) About two hundred *Whitethroats
and fifty * Wheatears from 9 to 10.30 P.M.; eleven Whitethroats and
four Wheatears killed.

_Burnham_ L.H.--One *Sedge Warbler killed at 3 A.M.

_Eddystone_ L.H.--Two Curlews seen at 1 P.M. flying E. (S., 1; B. C.
M.) Mr Ainger says that these birds are seldom seen at Eddystone.


August 23d.

_Nash (E.)_ L.H. Twenty to thirty Wheatears at 11 P.M. three killed.
(S.E., 1; C. M.)

_Eddystone_ L.H.--Several Wheatears and Warblers from 9 P.M. to 10.30
P.M. five caught. (S.W., 1; C. M.)


August 27th.

_Selker_ L.V.--Blackbirds, Starlings, and Titlarks flying round lantern
all night; disappeared at daybreak. (S.S.W., 3; O. M. B.)

_Carnarvon Bay_ L.V.--Three Stonechats killed at 5 A.M. (S.W., 4; fog.)

_Eddystone_ L.H.--Flocks of Oyster-Catchers all night; nine caught.
Several Wheatears and Warblers all night striking lantern; three
Warblers killed. (S.E. by S., 1; B. C. M.)

_Start Point_ L.H.--One Blackbird and one *Spotted Flycatcher caught at
11 P.M. (W.S.W., 2; C. G.)


Weather for the Week, August 29th to September 4th.

  The weather during the week was of two very distinct types. In the
  first of these a large anticyclone lay over Germany, France, and
  the southern half of England; and while in all these countries
  bright, dry, and very warm weather was being experienced, some of
  the maxima in England being as high as 87°, that over the western
  and northern parts of the kingdom and west of Norway was cyclonic,
  showery, and cool, with strong southerly and south-westerly
  winds. Very little change occurred until September 1st, when the
  anticyclone in the south began to spread west to Ireland, causing
  the wind to veer and lull, and making the air somewhat cooler and
  drier. On the evening of this day, however, a separate anticyclone
  was formed in the west, so that the wind veered to the northwards
  over England and the Bay of Biscay, while it was southerly and
  easterly in many other places. The conflict of air-currents brought
  about by these conditions soon produced thunderstorms and heavy
  rains over France. The change of temperature in England, owing to
  the northerly winds, rain, and heavy clouds, was very large--London
  being 26° colder at 2 P.M. on the 2d than on the previous day at
  the same hour. The shallow continental disturbances now moved
  northwards to our Islands, and the week closed with thunderstorms
  of great severity, prevailing in nearly all parts of France and the
  British Islands.--(From Weekly Summary, "Daily Weather Report,"
  September 5th, 1886.)


September 1st.

_South Bishop_ L.H.--Several Wheatears killed, by striking lantern, at
1 A.M. (W.N.W., 1; O. M.)

_Burnham_ L.H.--One Sedge Warbler struck at 3 A.M. (E.S.E., 1; fog.)

_Longships_ L.H.--A great many birds from midnight to daylight; three
struck, one killed. (S. to N., 3; drizzle and fog.)

_Wolf Rock_ L.H.--Several Wheatears striking lantern at 11 P.M. (N.E.
by N., 3; C. R. V.)

_Bishop Rock_ L.H.--About fifty Wheatears, one Starling, and a
Blackbird from 12 P.M. to 3 A.M. four or five came to glass, but none
killed. (N.N.E., 4; overcast.)


September 2d.

_Langness_ L.H.--One Wheatear and one Willow Warbler on lantern at 2
A.M. (Light S.W.; clear.) Five Wagtails at 9.30 A.M.

_Skerries Rock_ L.H.--Flycatchers and Wheatears flying round lantern at
midnight. (N.E., 2; fine, clear.)

_Eddystone_ L.H.--Hundreds of Wheatears from 9 P.M. to 4 A.M. (3d);
none caught. (N.E. by E., 3; B. C. V.)

_Plymouth Breakwater_ L.H.--Two Flycatchers struck and killed at 9.30
P.M. (N.W., 5; O. R. M.)


September 3d.[13]

[Footnote 13: For meteorological conditions, see p. 87.]

_Langness_ L.H.--A few Warblers on lantern from 1 to 4 A.M. A few House
Martins at 9.30 A.M. A great many Wheatears all day. (Light N.E.; haze.)

_Chickens Rock_ L.H.--Number of Stonechats (? Wheatears) flying round
light all night.

_River Dee_ L.V.--Scores of birds about the light from midnight till 4
A.M. One young "Sand-Lark," one *Whitethroat, and one *Moorhen killed;
one Gull caught alive. (E.S.E., 2; fog.)

_Smalls_ L.H.--Quail in the morning; Kestrel seen on rock in the
evening. (E.N.E., 1; O. M.)

_Nash (E.)_ L.H.--Four *Nightjars at 2.10 A.M., one killed; fifteen to
twenty *Common Buntings from 2.15 to 3 A.M., eight killed; fifty to
sixty *Common Whitethroats from 2.15 to 3 A.M., twenty-four killed;
twenty to thirty *Willow Wrens from 2.20 to 3.20 A.M., seventeen
killed; six young *Cuckoos at 3 A.M., two killed; fourteen House
Sparrows and one Robin killed at 3 A.M. thirty to forty Wheatears
at 3.10 A.M., two killed; three Blackbirds from 3 to 3.15 A.M., one
killed. Mr H. Nicholas says that on the 3d "there was an enormous
arrival of small birds, the greatest number ever seen here at any one
time."

_Longships_ L.H.--Several birds from 9.30 P.M. to midnight; three
struck; one Lark killed. (S.E., 3; misty and rain.)

_Bishop Rock_ L.H.--About one hundred Wheatears, two Ringed Dotterels,
six or seven Curlews, and one Manx Shearwater from 11 P.M. to daylight;
about twenty struck glass. Three Wheatears and one Manx Shearwater
killed. (E.N.E., 2; overcast, misty.)

_Eddystone_ L.H.--Hundreds of Wheatears and Larks from 10 P.M. till
3.30 A.M. none caught. One Blackbird and one Ring Ouzel seen.


September 4th.[14]

[Footnote 14: For meteorological conditions, see p. 87;]

_Chickens Rock_ L.H.--Numbers of Stonechats and a few Curlews flying
round the light all night.

_River Dee_ L.V.--About three dozen *Wheatears round the light all the
night of the 3d and morning of 4th; several killed, also one young
Sandpiper killed.

_Skerries Rock_ L.H.--About two dozen Lapwings and Curlews and a few
Larks flying round lantern from 9 P.M. to 10.30 P.M. (S., 3; thunder
and lightning.)

_South Bishop_ L.H.--A great many Wheatears and several Wrens striking
lantern windows from 12 P.M. to 3 A.M. several killed, and a great many
with broken wings. Several Blackbirds and Larks at 3 A.M. A company of
Swallows at 11 A.M., flying E. Mr Frost states, "the first we have seen
for some time." About half a dozen Stormy Petrels at midnight. (E., 4;
C. R. M.)

_Smalls_ L.H.--Numbers of Blackbirds, Starlings, Wheatears, and Swifts
from 3 A.M. till daylight; many striking, several killed. (S.S.E., 2;
O. R. M.)

_Longships_ L.H.--Several Larks and other birds unknown from 11 P.M. to
2 A.M. two struck; a *Rock Pipit killed. (S.E., 3; rain.)

_Wolf Rock_ L.H.--Six Wheatears striking lantern at 11 P.M. (S., 3; C.
R. V.)

_Eddystone_ L.H.--Hundreds of Wheatears all night; thirty killed.
(E.S.E, 3; C. P. V.)

_Plymouth Breakwater_ L.H.--One Plover caught at 2.25 A.M. (E.S.E., 3;
O. D. M.)

_Start Point_ L.H.--A flock of about fifty small birds from 9 P.M. to
midnight; two captured, a Wheatear and a "White-Breast." (E.S.E., 2; C.
G. P.)


September 5th.

_Langness_ L.H.--Two or three Goldcrests, several Swallows, and a large
number of Pipits at 9 A.M. (Light E.; haze.)

_Selker_ L.V.--Larks all night; one struck and killed. (S.S.E., 4; C.
M. P.)

_Burnham_ L.H.--One Sedge Warbler killed at 3 A.M. (S.W., 2; misty.)


Weather for Week, 19th to 25th September.

  During the 21st the existing depression filled up over Brittany,
  and with its dispersal the high-pressure system in the north spread
  down our west coasts, while the wind moderated and backed to N. and
  N.W. generally. The shift of winds was accompanied by a decided
  fall of temperature, and on the 23d and 24th the maximum readings
  over our Islands were below 60° in almost all places. On the
  morning of the 25th the anticyclonic system had reached the west of
  France; the winds over our Islands now backed to S.W. and S., the
  temperature rising.--(From Weekly Summary, "Daily Weather Report,"
  September 27th, 1886.)


September 20th.

_Eddystone_ L.H.--Hundreds of Wheatears all night; nine caught. (E., 5;
B. V.)


September 21st.

_Langness_ L.H.--Large numbers of Swallows and a flock of Grey Linnets
at 9 A.M.

_Cardigan Bay_ L.V.--Twenty-four Swallows at 9 A.M. passing S. by W.

_Helwick_ L.V.--About a dozen Swallows at 11 A.M. flying E.

_Sevenstones_ L.V.--Three Swallows at 10 A.M. flying round the ship.

_Eddystone_ L.H.--One Woodcock killed at 7.30 P.M., but lost over.
(E.N.E., 9; O. Q. R.)


September 23d.

_Langness_ L.H.--A few Wheatears at 5 P.M. (Light E.; clear.) Cardigan
Bay L.V.--About twenty small birds, "Flycatcher species," passed to
west at 8 A.M. (E.N.E., 2; B. C. V.)

_Smalls_ L.H.--A great many striking during the night; several killed,
including *Stonechat, *Whitethroat, *Willow Wren, *Chiff-Chaff, and
*Sedge Warbler. Two female Blackbirds also killed. (N.E., 4; C. V.)

_Helwick_ L.V.--"Some dozens of Willow Wrens and Whitethroats were
flying around the light all night, some falling dead on deck, and
dozens overboard."

_Flatholm_ L.H.--Large flocks of Swifts and Starlings during the day.
(W., 3; C. M.)

_Eddystone_ L.H.--A great many small birds, Larks, Wheatears, and
Warblers, from 9 P.M. to 4 A.M. One male Ring Ouzel caught. (E.N.E., 4;
C. M.)


September 24th.

_Chickens Rock_ L.H.--Four Goldcrests and two Thrushes struck at 10.30
P.M. (Light breeze, S.W.; haze.)

_South Stack_ L.H.--One Robin caught on lantern at 11.45 P.M. (W.S.W.,
3; C. V.)

_Flatholm_ L.H.--Large flocks of Swallows, Wagtails, and other small
birds all day, passing S.W.

_Bull Point_ L.H.--A number of small birds, "of two species"
[*Whitethroat and *Willow Wren], flying about the light at 4 A.M.; four
killed. (S., 3; O. M.)

_Bishop Rock_ L.H.--Several Wheatears and "Furze-chats" came to glass
at 1 A.M. (N.E., 3; misty.)

_Eddystone_ L.H.--Great many Wheatears and Warblers, and one Sand
Martin, from 8 P.M. to 4 A.M. Two Ring Ouzels, females, caught. (E. by
S., 2; C. G. V.)

_Start Point_ L.H.--One small bird, and one "Whitebreast," fluttering
about the light at 9.30 P.M. (Calm; C. G. V.)


Weather for the Week, 3d to 9th October.

  Up to the night of the 2d the conditions had been cyclonic and
  unsettled. At the beginning of the week an anticyclone lay over
  the North Sea, while depressions of considerable size, but of no
  great depth, moved northwards along our extreme western coasts.
  South-easterly or southerly winds, therefore, prevailed generally;
  in the west they were strong in force, and the weather cloudy;
  but in the east and south-east light breezes and fine weather
  were reported. On the 4th the thermometer exceeded 75° in many
  parts of England. By the 5th the anticyclone had moved northwards
  to Scandinavia, and as it did so a second high pressure system
  appeared over Spain. These conditions were accompanied, as usual,
  by the formation of shallow depressions in the intervening
  regions, one of which lay over the east of England on the morning
  of the 6th, subsequently moving northwards to Scotland; and a
  second, which advanced over our south-west coasts on the 7th, and
  ultimately filled up over the north-east of France. On the 9th
  a larger and much deeper depression had appeared in the west,
  and in the course of the day it moved northwards, occasioning
  south-easterly or southerly gales at many of our western and some
  of our northern stations.--(From Weekly Summary, "Daily Weather
  Report," October 11, 1886.)


October 3d.

_Langness_ L.H.--A few Thrushes and Blackbirds on lantern at 2 A.M.
(Fresh E.; haze.)

_Chickens Rock_ L.H.--Large flocks of Thrushes and Blackbirds, a few
Larks, and one Ring Ouzel, from 9 P.M. till daylight; large numbers
killed. (S.E., fresh breeze; haze.)

_Selker_ L.V.--A few Thrushes, Blackbirds, and Larks flying about the
lights throughout the night; six killed.

_Menai_ L.H.--A Thrush caught alive at 2 A.M. A number of Linnets
caught at 10 A.M. old birds.

_South Stack_ L.H.--A Blackbird caught on lantern at 11.50 P.M.

_Wolf Rock_ L.H.--One "Turtle Dove" at 11 A.M. (S., 5; B. C. V.)

_Eddystone_ L.H.--Several small birds (Wheatears and Warblers), a
Blackbird, and a Ring Ouzel, from 7 P.M. till 3 A.M. several killed.
(E. by N., 4; C. M.)


October 4th.

_Langness_ L.H.--A few Common Thrushes striking lantern from 9 to 10
P.M.

_Chickens Rock_ L.H.--Flocks of Thrushes, mixed with Blackbirds, Larks,
Starlings, and other small birds, from 9 P.M. till daylight; a few
killed, but principally flying in the rays of the light. (S.E. strong
breeze; haze.)

_River Dee_ L.V.--A few small birds about the lantern during the night,
species not known; one "Flycatcher" found dead on deck. (S.S.E., 2; O.
M.)

_Skerries Rock_ L.H.--Blackbirds, Thrushes, and Larks flying round
lantern from 12 (midnight) to 4 A.M. (S.E., 4; cloudy, misty.)

_South Stack_ L.H.--A few Thrushes, a Goldcrest, a Lark, and a Starling
caught at lantern between 12 P.M. and 4 A.M. (E.S.E., 4; C. M.)

_Cardigan Bay_ L.V.--Large flock of Meadow Pipits flying S.W. at 7 P.M.
(E.S.E., 4; G. M.)

_Helwick_ L.V.--"Some dozens" of Wheatears around the light at 2 A.M.
many killed and falling overboard.

_Flatholm_ L.H.--Small flocks of House Martins all day, going south.

_Wolf Rock_ L.H.--Three Sea Swallows at 3 P.M. (S.E., 5; B. C. V.)

_Eddystone_ L.H.--Two Larks, one Thrush, and one Starling caught from 9
till 12 P.M. (S.E., 7; C. G. L. V.)


October 5th.

_Langness_ L.H.--Large flock of Grey Linnets, a few Sky Larks, and
about twenty Swallows at 9.30 A.M. A great many Thrushes flying about
lantern from 7 to 8 P.M. One Missel Thrush caught. (E., fresh; haze.)

_Chickens Rock_ L.H.--A few Thrushes, Starlings, Blackbirds,
Stonechats, and Larks flying round the light all night. Three
Goldfinches sitting on lantern at 4 A.M. (Variable light breeze; haze.)

_Bahama Bank_ L.V.--Several Thrushes, Blackbirds, and a great many
Larks flying round the light at 10 P.M. Four Thrushes killed, and three
caught alive; six Larks killed. (S.S.E.; misty, rain.)

_Selker_ L.V.--A great many Blackbirds, Thrushes, and Larks flying
round the light. Four Thrushes killed from 8 to 12 P.M. (S., 4; M.)

_St Ann's High_ L.H.--Large number of small "Flycatchers" flying
against the lantern during the night; fifteen killed.

_Bull Point_ L.H.--A Lark struck glass at 3 A.M., but not killed.
(S.S.E., 3; B. C. M.)

_Wolf Rock_ L.H.--A Kestrel Hawk remained from 9 A.M. to sunset, and
then flew N.E.

_Eddystone_ L.H.--Two Quails (male and female) caught at 2 A.M. (S., 3;
C. R. M.)

_Portland Low_ L.H.--Three or four Linnets flying about from 1 to 3
A.M. (S.E., 2; C. V.)


October 7th.

_Langness_ L.H.--A good many Swallows at 9 A.M. Skerries
L.H.--Blackbirds, Thrushes, Larks, and "Flycatchers" at 3 A.M. two or
three dozen struck lantern. (S.E., 2; misty.)

_South Stack_ L.H.--Blackbirds, Thrushes, Larks, and Wrens at 4 P.M.
several struck lantern; a few killed. (S.E., 2; C. M. R.)

_Cardigan Bay_ L.V.--A flock of Martins at 9 A.M., passing S.S.W.

_Helwick_ L.V.--A large number of "Pinks" (Fringilla cartels) passing
to south at 7 A.M.

_Wolf Rock_ L.H.--Four Sea Swallows (Sterna) appeared at 2 P.M., and
left for east at sunset.


October 8th.

_Langness_ L.H.--A Hedge Accentor and a Wheatear at 4 P.M.

_Selker_ L.V.--A great many Thrushes from 2 to 5 A.M. two killed.
(S.S.E., 3; misty.)

_Skerries_ L.H.--Thrushes, Blackbirds, Wheatears, and Flycatchers at 4
A.M. some killed. (Calm, misty.)

_Cardigan Bay_ L.V.--Sixteen Skylarks and two Chaffinches at 10 A.M.

_Portland Low_ L.H.--Twenty Swallows at 10 A.M.


Weather for Week, 18th to 23d October.

  The weather during this period has been much quieter than last
  week, but conditions have been by no means settled, and several
  depressions--mostly shallow--have appeared in the neighbourhood
  of the British Isles. On the 17th the deep disturbance which had
  crossed our Islands reached Holland, and was apparently filling
  up. In the course of the day, however, a subsidiary disturbance,
  more southwards, down our W. coasts. During the 18th and 19th the
  depression over Holland and the subsidiary disturbance (which had
  then reached the Bay of Biscay) dispersed gradually, and moderating
  north-easterly winds were reported over the greater part of the
  United Kingdom. A depression was found in the English Channel on
  the morning of the 20th; this, in the course of the ensuing 24
  hours, moved northwards to the North Sea, where it eventually
  dispersed. Its progress was attended by very heavy thunderstorms
  over the midland and eastern counties of England; and on the 21st
  the phenomena were reproduced over the northern districts. At
  the close of the week the weather over our islands was under the
  influence partly of a well-marked depression over the Bay of Biscay
  and partly of an anticyclone extending over Scandinavia. Easterly
  winds, therefore, prevailed generally; in the N. they were light in
  force and the weather fair, but in the extreme S. they blew freshly
  with occasional rain.


October 19th.

_Langness_ L.H.--One Redwing at 9 P.M. A large flock of Wild Duck at
5.30 P.M. (N.E.; fresh, showers.)

_Selker_ L.V.--A dozen Crows going S.E. at 10 A.M.

_Skerries_ L.H.--Blackbirds and Thrushes around the lantern at 9 P.M.

_South Stack_ L.H.--Blackbirds, Thrushes, Larks, and one Goldcrest from
9 to 10 P.M. a few caught. (E.N.E., 7; C. M. R.)

_Scarweather_ L.V.--Four Chaffinches at 7.30 A.M.

_Breaksea_ L.V.--Blackbirds, Thrushes, Redwings, and Fieldfares around
the lantern from 8 P.M. to midnight. One Wren killed. (E.N.E., 3; O. M.
L.)

_Godrevy_ L.V.--Several Redwings at 7 P.M. a few killed.

_Wolf Rock_ L.H.--Four Terns at 4 P.M.

_Eddystone_ L.H.--Redwings and Starlings from 7 to 10 P.M.; many caught
and more lost over. (N.E., 2; C. M. and C. M. D.)

_Start Point_ L.H.--Many Thrushes, also Ring Ouzels and Spotted
Flycatchers; fifty Thrushes, two Ring Ouzels, and two Flycatchers
captured.


October 20th.

_Langness_ L.H.--Twelve Missel Thrushes flying W. at 7.30 A.M. A large
flock of Lapwings appeared at 3 P.M. A Goldcrest on lantern from 9 P.M.
to 3 A.M.

_Chickens Rock_ L.H.--Large numbers of birds were observed flying round
the lantern, and a Lark and a Goldfinch perched.

_Selker_ L.V.--Blackbirds, Thrushes, and Larks in numbers at lantern
all night and on early morning of 21st; many struck and lost over.

_Morecambe Bay_ L.V.--One Linnet, three Starlings, and three Larks on
deck at 10.40 A.M.

_Dee_ L.V.--Flocks of Titlarks all forenoon; one Wren on deck at 8.15
A.M.

_Menai_ L.H.--Flocks of Linnets, Starlings, and Crows on the shore at 7
A.M.

_Skerries_ L.H.--Three dozen Starlings and Larks killed at 10 P.M.

_Holyhead Breakwater_ L.H.--A Starling and Goldcrest captured at 9 P.M.

_South Stack_ L.H.--A great number of Blackbirds, Thrushes, Starlings,
and Larks; also one Goldcrest, one Robin, and one Chaffinch flying
around the lantern from 8 P.M. to midnight.

_Carnarvon Bay_ L.V.--Starlings, Finches, and Larks at sunrise; many
caught on deck. (N.E., 3; C. M.)

_Bardsey_ L.H.--"Eighty Blackbirds and about fifty Thrushes killed at
lantern."

_Cardigan Bay_ L.V.--One Rook and two Chaffinches at 11.30 A.M.

_Smalls_ L.H.--One Corncrake killed at lantern.

_Scarweather_ L.V.--Six Larks, three dozen Sparrows, and three dozen
Linnets passed N.E. between 8.30 and 10.30 A.M.

_Nash_ L.H.--Two Skylarks killed at 10 P.M., and eleven Starlings
killed between 10 and 10.30 P.M.


October 21st.

_Langness_ L.H.--A Woodlark at 1 A.M. on lantern. Five Swallows at 9.30
A.M. flying S.W.

_Selker_ L.V.--Blackbirds, Thrushes, Larks, and other birds, unknown,
around the lantern until daylight this morning; many killed.

_Morecambe Bay_ L.V.--Six Blackbirds, eleven "Titlarks," and five
Skylarks flying S. during the forenoon.

_Carnarvon Bay_ L.V.--Blackbirds, Thrushes, Starlings, and Snipe. One
Blackbird, six Thrushes, and one Snipe found dead at 5 A.M.

_Helwick_ L.V.--Six to eight dozen Larks passing S. at 11 A.M.

_Nash_ L.H.--Two Song Thrushes killed at 9.30 P.M. four Redwings killed
between 9 and 11 P.M. (N., 4; C. M.)

_Start Point_ L.H.--One "Titlark" at 8.30 P.M.


October 23d.

_Helwick_ L.V.--Two Thrushes and a female Blackbird killed at 3 A.M.

_Nash_ L.H.--A Woodcock killed at 2 A.M.

_Godrevy_ L.H.--A great number of Redwings, Thrushes, and Starlings all
night; some of each killed. (E., 6; G. M. P.)

_Longships_ L.H.--Scores of Starlings and Thrushes all night; a great
number striking.


Weather for Week, 24th to 31st October.

  Conditions not pronounced. During earlier portion of week the
  weather dull, and at times wet over the southern and south-western
  parts of the United Kingdom, fine but rather foggy elsewhere; later
  on the rain spread northwards over England and Ireland, and the
  wind veered from E. to S.E. and S., with a rise of temperature and
  damp, close air. Pressure highest over Sweden and the Baltic, and,
  as a rule, lowest over the Bay of Biscay and off our south-western
  coasts, the gradients for easterly winds being steepest on the
  25th. Two depressions appeared, the second of which, apparently
  larger but not a deep system, approached the Irish Coasts on the
  30th, and, moving northwards, caused freshening southerly winds and
  rain in the west; while light southerly breezes were felt at the
  eastern station, with very mild but dull and damp weather.--(From
  Weekly Summary, "Daily Weather Report," November 2d, 1886.)


October 24th.

_Carnarvon Bay_ L.V.--Ten Greenfinches and Chaffinches on deck all day;
four caught.

_Cardigan Bay_ L.V.--Several flocks of Starlings and Skylarks going
S.W. during the day.

_Nash_ L.H.--A few Blackbirds and Redwings between 4.30 and 5 A.M. a
few killed.

_Godrevy_ L.H.--Great numbers of Redwings, Thrushes, Blackbirds, and
Starlings all night; several killed.

_Longships_ L.H.--Scores of Thrushes and Starlings all night; a good
many captured.

_Wolf Rock_ L.H.--Twenty "Grey Birds" flying around the lantern at 10
P.M.

_Bishop Rock_ L.H.--Several Blackbirds, Thrushes, Redwings, and
Fieldfares from 11 P.M. to daylight; six killed.

_Eddystone_ L.H.--Thrushes, Redwings, Starlings, and Larks from
midnight to 3 A.M. fifty to sixty striking.


October 25th.

_Helwick_ L.V.--A Blackbird and a Lark killed at 2 A.M.

_Nash_ L.H.--Large flocks of Lapwings passing S.E. from 7 to 10 A.M.
Flock of Redwings passing S. at 10 A.M. Six Song Thrushes killed at
8.20 P.M. Ten Blackbirds killed between 8 and 10 P.M.

_Godrevy_ L.H.--A great number of Redwings, Thrushes, and Starlings all
night; several killed.

_Longships_ L.H.--A few Puffins going S. during the morning. A good
many Starlings, Thrushes, and Larks all night; several killed.

_Wolf Rock_ L.H.--Twenty-four "Grey Birds" about lantern at 12 P.M.

_Bishop Rock_ L.H.--Several hundreds of Blackbirds, Thrushes, Redwings,
Fieldfares, Ring Ouzels, and "Copperfinches" from 9 P.M. to daylight
(26th). Sixty Redwings, five Fieldfares, three Ring Ouzels, and one
"Copperfinch" (? _Fringilla montifringilla_) killed. Mr Troth remarks;
"This is the largest migration that has been seen at the Bishop Rock
for five years."

_Eddystone_ L.H.--Thrushes, Redwings, and Starlings from 11 P.M. (24th)
to 5 A.M. a great number striking and falling over. Missel Thrushes,
Blackbirds, Thrushes, Redwings, Fieldfares, Ring Ouzels, Larks,
Starlings, Finches, and Warblers from 6 P.M. to 5 A.M. (26th); between
one and two hundred struck and lost over; twenty-nine caught. All the
birds struck the windward side of lantern during heavy rain.

_Portland Low_ L.H.--Thrushes at 4 A.M. Sixty Chaffinches at 2 P.M.

_Shambles_ L.V.--A number of Larks hovering round the lantern at 8
P.M.; a great number striking and falling over.


October 26th.

_Cardigan Bay_ L.V.--Two Chaffinches on board, and several flying
around all night.

_Nash_ L.H.--A large flock of Lapwings flying around the lantern at 1
A.M. one killed. Woodcocks at 3 A.M. two killed. Goldcrests at 3.40
A.M.; two killed. Fieldfares at 4.10 A.M.; four killed. Skylarks at 5
A.M. four killed. Four Snipe at 9 P.M., passing S.E. Missel Thrushes at
9.50 P.M. one killed. Bramblings at 10 P.M.; one killed. Snipe at 10.30
P.M.; four killed. Mr Nicholas remarks; "Large numbers of birds flying
around the lantern all the morning, but at sunrise a good many were
passing S.E. A Green Woodpecker was seen with the others at mid-day."

_Bull Point_ L.H.--A Blackbird killed at 2 A.M.

_Wolf Rock_ L.H.--A Blackbird killed at 5 A.M.

_Eddystone_ L.H.--Blackbirds, Fieldfares, Thrushes, and Redwings
from 6 P.M. to 4 A.M. (27th); about sixty killed. (For early morning
observations at this station see 25th October.)

_Portland Low_ L.H.--One Snipe killed at 7 P.M.


October 27th.

_Langness_ L.H.--Four birds struck between 7.30 and 9 P.M. A Starling
and a Common Thrush killed.

_Bahama Bank_ L.V.--Several Thrushes from 10 P.M. to 4 A.M. (28th); one
killed.

_Skerries Rock_ L.H.--Blackbirds, Thrushes, Larks, and Starlings from 8
P.M. to midnight; several killed.

_Nash_ L.H.--A Wren killed at 2 A.M. a Robin and Black Redstart killed
at 2.10 A.M. A Red-winged Starling[15] (_Agelæus phœniceus_) captured
at 3 A.M. Redwings at 10.40 P.M. a few killed.

[Footnote 15: Refer to the information given under this species in the
next section of the Report for full particulars of this interesting
occurrence.]

_Longships_ L.H.--A Goldcrest at lantern at 3.30 A.M.

_Eddystone_ L.H.--(See yesterday for information on this morning's
observations.)


October 28th.

_Langness_ L.H.--One Blackbird at lantern at 9 P.M.

_Morecambe Bay_ L.V.--Three "Dish Washers" (_Motacilla_) flying S. by
W. at 10.30 A.M.

_South Stack_ L.H.--Several Blackbirds and Finches flying round the
lantern all night.

_Carnarvon Bay_ L.V.--Finches and Linnets all day; "two Brown Linnets
captured."

_Helwick_ L.V.--A Thrush killed at 1.30 A.M.

_Nash_ L.H.--A flock of from 80 to 100 Skylarks passed S. at 9 A.M.

_Breaksea_ L.V.--Starlings, Larks, and House Sparrows from 7 to 10
P.M., flying round the lantern.

_Flatholm_ L.H.--Five Thrushes, four Blackbirds, one Lark, and six
Starlings killed between 1 and 3 A.M.

_Longships_ L.H.--Puffins and Guillemots moving south all the morning.

_Bishop Rock_ L.H.--A few birds at 3 A.M.

_Eddystone_ L.H.--Blackbirds, Thrushes, Redwings, and Starlings from
midnight to 3.30 A.M. many struck and lost over.

_Portland Low_ L.H.--One Fieldfare killed at 2 A.M.


October 30th.

_Selker_ L.V.--Thrushes and Larks all nip-lit; eight Thrushes killed.

_Skerries_ L.H.--Fourteen dozen Blackbirds, Thrushes, Larks, and
Starlings killed between midnight and 6 A.M. also a few Chaffinches
seen, but none killed. (Misty, rain.)

_Cardigan Bay_ L.V.--A good many birds at lantern all night.

_Helwick_ L.V.--Two male Blackbirds and a Thrush killed at 11.30 P.M.

_Bull Point_ L.H.--A Blackbird struck at 5 A.M.

_Longships_ L.H.--Several Thrushes and Starlings all night; a few
killed or captured. Puffins and Guillemots going south in the morning.

_Eddystone_ L.H.--Numbers of Blackbirds, Thrushes, Redwings, Starlings,
Larks, Finches, and "Flycatchers" from 9 P.M. to 5 A.M. (31st); a few
striking, and two Blackbirds (females), two Thrushes, five Redwings,
six Larks, and twenty-one Starlings captured.

_Start Point_ L.H.--Blackbirds, Starlings, and a few small birds at
lantern all night.


October 31st.

_Langness_ L.H.--Three Blackbirds (one male and two females) on lantern
from 3 to 5 A.M.

_Dee_ L.V.--Hundreds of birds--*Thrush, *Missel Thrush, *Blackbird, and
*Skylarks killed.

_Skerries_ L.H.--A few Thrushes at midnight.

_Carnarvon Bay_ L.V.--Blackbirds and Larks passing to S.W. in forenoon.

_Bardsey_ L.H.--Six Blackbirds, six Thrushes, and one Jack Snipe killed
at lantern.

_Cardigan Bay_ L.V.--A male Blackbird struck lantern.

_Bull Point_ L.H.--Six Blackbirds at 5 A.M.

_Eddystone_ L.H.--Numbers of Blackbirds, Thrushes, Redwings, Starlings,
Larks, Finches, and Flycatchers, from 9 P.M. (30th) to 5 A.M. a few
striking; and two Blackbirds (females), two Thrushes, five Redwings,
six Larks, and twenty-one Starlings captured.

_Start Point_ L.H.--A few Larks at 3 A.M.


Weather for Week, 21st to 27th November.

  During the week the distribution of pressure, temperature, and
  winds and weather, were all continuously anticyclonic. The system
  was formed over the British Islands on Sunday, the 21st, in a ridge
  which extended northwards from a small anticyclone, which at that
  time lay over France. On the 24th the system covered the North
  Sea, England, and the north-western half of France. For a day or
  two more the anticyclone grew higher, temperature became very low
  over the inland counties as the anticyclone increased, so that
  early on the 24th minima were recorded as low as 27°. The centre of
  the system now moved westward, and the temperature rose decidedly.
  On the 25th the anticyclone moved to the westward of Ireland,
  and had afterwards decreased in intensity. The winds during its
  prevalence were light to moderate at most of the coast stations,
  calm inland; but the most striking feature was the continued
  prevalence of dense fogs. At the close of the week the system was
  dispersing, and mild south-westerly winds were setting in on our
  western and north-western coasts, with rain, increasing to strong
  south-westerly winds, while large areas of low pressure skirted our
  north-western and northern coasts.--(From Weekly Summary in "Daily
  Weather Report," November 29, 1886.)


November 21st.

_Holyhead Breakwater_ L.H.--A Thrush killed at 6 A.M.

_Nash_ L.H.--Two Song Thrushes killed at 9 P.M.

_Breaksea_ L.V.--A few Fieldfares from 8 to 11 P.M.

_Eddystone_ L.H.--A Redwing and a Starling killed at 3 A.M. Twenty-one
Stormy Petrels captured between 6 and 12 P.M. They came to the light in
twos and threes, striking the lantern very gently.


November 22d.

_Langness_ L.H.--A great many Blackbirds and several Starlings at
lantern from midnight to 4 A.M. A Snipe at 10 A.M.

_Selker_ L.V.--Thrushes at 1 A.M. one caught and one killed.

_River Dee_ L.V.--Blackbirds, Thrushes, and Starlings; numbers killed.

_Carnarvon Bay_ L.V.--Thrushes, Blackbirds, and Larks at 1 A.M.

_Cardigan Bay_ L.V.--Several Larks, and other birds not known, flying
around the lantern all night.

_Helwick_ L.V.--Two Redwings killed at lantern.

_Nash_ L.H.--A Woodcock passed to N.W. at 2 P.M.

_Eddystone_ L.H.--Numbers of Fieldfares, Redwings, Thrushes,
Blackbirds, *Blackcaps, *Skylarks, and Storm Petrels; several of each
species captured, including one Reed Warbler and three Petrels, from 7
P.M. to 6 A.M. (23d).

_Start Point_ L.H.--A Mistletoe Thrush killed at 3 A.M. A Leach's
Petrel (_Procellaria leucorrhoa_) captured at 10 A.M., resting inside
one of the ventilators.


November 23d.

_Langness_ L.H.--A Redwing on the lantern at 12.15 A.M.

_Bahama Bank_ L.V.--About a score Blackbirds, six "Grey Birds," and a
dozen Starlings, flying round the lantern all night; a few killed.

_Carnarvon Bay_ L.H.--Many birds around the lantern all night. A Missel
Thrush killed and fell on deck; numbers of others falling overboard.

_Helwick_ L.V.--Several Blackbirds, Larks, and Starlings flying about
all night.

_Nash_ L.H.--Six Skylarks and two Lapwings killed at 11.30 P.M.

_Breaksea_ L.V.--A few Larks, Starlings, and Lapwings from 7 P.M. to 4
A.M. (24th).

_Eddystone_ L.H.--Numbers of Fieldfares, Redwings, Thrushes,
Blackbirds, Larks, Starlings, "Reed Warbler," and Stormy Petrels from
7 P.M. (22d) to 6 A.M. Very few striking, but some of each caught,
including one "Reed Warbler" and three Petrels.


November 24th.

_Selker_ L.V.--Thrushes, Blackbirds, and Larks all night.

_Carnarvon Bay_ L.V.--A flock of Blackbirds going east at 1.20 P.M.

_Helwick_ L.V.--Several Blackbirds, Larks, and Starlings all night.

_Nash_ L.H.--Two Thrushes killed at 11 P.M.

_Breaksea_ L.V.--A *Knot killed at 5.50 P.M. A *Dunlin killed at 11 P.M.

_Bishop Rock_ L.H.--About 200 Blackbirds/Thrushes, and Fieldfares from
9 P.M. to daylight (25th); several killed.

_Eddystone_ L.H.--Hundreds of birds flying about all
night,--Fieldfares, Missel Thrushes, Song Thrushes, Blackbirds, Larks,
Starlings, Lapwings, and Stormy Petrels; caught three Thrushes, four
Starlings, three Larks, and eight Petrels.


November 25th.

_Bishop Rock_ L.H.--About two hundred Blackbirds, Thrushes, and
Fieldfares from 9 P.M. (24th) to daylight; several killed. A Linnet
and "Copperfinch" (? _Fringilla montifringilla_) left the lantern at
daybreak.

_Eddystone_ L.H.--Hundreds Mistletoe Thrushes, Thrushes, Fieldfares,
Blackbirds, Larks, Lapwings, and Stormy Petrels from 7 P.M. to 6 A.M.
(26th); one Blackbird, two Thrushes, one Lark, one *Goldcrest, and
three Storm Petrels.

_Plymouth Breakwater_ L.H.--A Stormy Petrel caught at lantern at 9.45
P.M.

_Start Point_ L.H.--Blackbirds at 2 A.M. one captured.

_Shambles_ L.V.--A number of Starlings around the lantern at 2 A.M.


November 26th.

_Selker_ L.V.--Thrushes, Blackbirds, Lapwings, and Curlews flying round
the lantern from 4 to 7 A.M.

_Carnarvon Bay_ L.V.--A flock of Lapwings at 10 P.M. one killed.

_Smalls_ L.H.--Blackbirds, Fieldfares, Larks, and Starlings; a great
number striking lantern.

_Helwick_ L.V.--Several Redwings, Larks, and Starlings all night.

_Eddystone_ L.H.--Hundreds of Lapwings, Fieldfares, Blackbirds,
Thrushes, Missel Thrushes, Larks, and Stormy Petrels, from 7 P.M.
(25th) to 6 A.M. many caught. A few birds seen flying about from 9 P.M.
to 3 A.M. (27th); the Storm Petrels striking.

_Plymouth Breakwater_ L.H.--Two Linnets at 10 P.M.


November 27th.

_Selker_ L.V.--Blackbirds, Thrushes, Larks, Lapwings, and Curlews all
night.

_Carnarvon Bay_ L.H.--A flock of Lapwings at 2 A.M.

_Cardigan Bay_ L.V.--Several Blackbirds, Thrushes, and Larks flying
round the lantern all night.

_Helwick_ L.V.--A few Blackbirds, Fieldfares, and Larks all night.

_Scarweather_ L.V.--A Wild Goose going south at 9 A.M.

_Breaksea_ L.V.--Larks and Snipe from midnight to 4 A.M. a Snipe killed.

_Eddystone_ L.H.--A few birds flying about from 9 P.M. (26th) to 3 A.M.
three Storm Petrels struck. A few Starlings, Thrushes, and Petrels from
9 to 12 P.M. several of each species captured.


Separate Notes on each Species.

This section aims at furnishing in an epitomised form information
on the movements of the various species comprised in the Report.
In addition, however, to the observations furnished by the various
Lightkeepers--the more important of which form the Diary of
observations--the following notes have been incorporated:--

Observations made in Cumberland, communicated by Messrs Macpherson and
Duckworth.

Notes from the North-West Coast of Merioneth, by Mr G. H. Caton-Haigh.

Notes from Somerset, by Mr Arthur H. Macpherson.

Notes from Minehead, Somerset, by Mr E. G. Waddilove (per Rev. H. A.
Macpherson).

Notes from North Devon, by Mr Oliver V. Aplin.

To the above-named ornithologists, and to Mr W. Cecil Scott, of Leeds,
the writer begs to tender his best thanks for their valued co-operation.

Additional particulars and information on the Meteorological Conditions
may, in most cases, be obtained by a reference to the Diary which
precedes this section of the Report.

The species marked * have been identified from wings sent.


_Turdus viscivorus_ (L.), Missel Thrush.--Spring: February 27th,
Eddystone, many striking, one killed. April 9th, N.W. Merioneth,
several small flocks. Observed in small numbers during the

Autumn: October 5th, Langness, one caught; 20th, Langness, twelve;
26th, Nash; 31st, *Dee L.V. November 23d, Carnarvon Bay L.V. 24th,
25th, and 26th, Eddystone.

_Turdus musicus_ (L.), Song Thrush.--An important vernal movement from
March 24th to 29th, affecting the coast generally.

Autumn: First noted at Chickens Rock, September 24th, when two were
killed at 10.30 P.M. Afterwards present at the movements of the latter
half of October and late November. Eighty were killed at Bardsey Light
on October 20th.

_Turdus iliacus_ (L), Redwing.--Spring: March 14th, at Eddystone, along
with Thrushes and Wheatears; 26th, Langness, two killed; night of 27th
and morning of 28th, Eddystone, numbers; 29th, Langness, one struck.

Autumn: September 28th, Carlisle; October 2d, Carlisle, and many on the
7th; 13th, Wolf Rock, several; in numbers on the 19th. After at all
the principal movements of the late autumn (October 18th to 31st, and
November 21st to 27th).

_Turdus pilaris_ (L.), Fieldfare.--Spring: First noted at Chickens Rock
on March 25th, along with Thrushes; last seen on April 16th at Allonby,
Comb.

Autumn: First on October 2d at Allonby, Cumb.; then on 24th at Bishop
Rock, and afterwards in numbers during the movements of October and
November (22d-27th).

_Turdus merula_ (L.), Blackbird.--Important Spring movements, along
with other _Turdinæ_ and Wheatears, on March 24th and 27th.

Autumn: August 27th at the lanterns of the Selker L.V. and Start L.H.
September 3d, Nash, three killed; Eddystone, one; September 4th,
many. Great movements on October 3d to 8th, October 18th to 31st, and
November 22d to 27th. Fifty were killed at Bardsey L.H. on October 20th.

_Turdus torquatus_, L., Ring Ouzel.--Spring: April 5th, Eddystone, two
caught at midnight; April 12th, N.W. Merioneth, a pair.

Autumn: *Start, August 3d, one killed at 3 A.M. September 3d,
Eddystone; 23d and 24th, Eddystone, one caught; October 3d, at Chickens
Rock and Eddystone; 19th, Start, two captured; 25th, at Eddystone and
Bishop Rock.

_Saxicola œnanthe_ (L.), Wheatear.--Spring: March 24th, at Chickens
Rock, South Stack, and Eddystone stations; 26th, St Bees; April 11th,
Langness; 23d, at Eddystone in hundreds; 29th, at Eddystone.

Autumn: August 3d and 4th, *Start Point; 9th, Eddystone, in numbers;
23d, Nash, in numbers; 28th, Start, one killed; September 2d,
Eddystone, in numbers; 3d and 4th, a general movement along the entire
coast line; 20th, Eddystone; October 3d, Eddystone; 4th, *Helwick
(dozens); 8th, Langness and Skerries.

_Pratincola rubetra_ (L.), Whinchat.--Spring: April 24th, N.W.
Merioneth, first seen.

Autumn: *Smalls, September 23d, one killed.

_Pratincola rubicola_ (L.), Stonechat.--August 4th, *Start, one killed.

_Ruticilla titys_ (Scop.), Black Redstart.--October 29th, Nash, one
killed; November 3d, Langness, "female Redstart" observed at 11 A.M.
12th, Carlisle, one; December 5th, Langness, "a female Redstart;"
January 21st (1887), Towyn, one shot (_Field_, January 30th, 1887).

_Erithacus rubecula_ (L.), Redbreast.--Only a few records.

Autumn: First noticed at the great movement at the Nash L.H. on
September 3d; September 11th, Langness, one at 3 P.M. 24th, South
Stack; October 20th, South Stack, one; 27th, Nash, one.

_Sylvia cinerea_ (Bechst.), Whitethroat.--Spring: April 11th, Langness;
23d, *Nash, in numbers; May 10th, at Langness, with Sedge Warblers and
Willow Wrens; six killed and two injured.

Autumn: August 2d and 3d, *Start; 22d, Nash, many; September 1st,
Longships, one killed; 3d, Dee L.V. and *Nash, many; 23d, *Smalls and
*Helwick, some dozens; 24th, *Bull Point and Start.

_Sylvia atricapilla_ (L.), Blackcap.--Spring: April 22d, N.W.
Merioneth, arrived.

Autumn: November 22d, *Eddystone, one killed.

_Regulus cristatus_ (Koch), Goldcrest.--Not numerous. The following are
the only records:--

Autumn: September 5th, Langness, two or three; 24th, Chickens Rock,
four at 10.30 P.M. October 2d, Chickens Rock, a few; 4th, South Stack,
one; 20th, Langness, one; Holyhead, one, and South Stack, one; 22d,
Skerries, one; 26th, Nash, two killed; 27th, Longships, one; 29th,
Holyhead, two; November 25th, *Eddystone, one killed.

_Phylloscopus sibilatrix_ (Bechst.), Wood Wren.--Spring: May 7th,
Carlisle.

_Phylloscopus rufus_ (Bechst.), Chiff Chaff.--Spring: March 24th,
Ravenglass; April 2d, N.W. Merioneth, a good many.

Autumn: September 23d, *Smalls, one killed; 29th, *Bull Point, one
killed.

_Phylloscopus trochilus_ (L.), Willow Warbler.--Spring: March 24th,
Langness; April 10th, Langness; 27th, Langness; May 10th, Langness,
along with Sedge Warblers and Whitethroats.

Autumn: August 1st, Nash; 3d, *Start; September 3d, *Nash, fifty or
sixty between 2 and 3 A.M., twenty-four killed; 23d, *Smalls and
*Helwick, some dozens; October 6th, Langness, one at 2 A.M.

_Acrocephalus phragmitis_ (Bechst.), Sedge Warbler.--Spring: April
10th, Langness, in numbers; May 10th, Langness, along with Willow
Warblers and Whitethroats at midnight.

Autumn: August 6th, Start, two at midnight; 22d, *Nash, in numbers;
*Burnham, one; 28th, *Start, one; September 1st and 5th, Burnham; 23d,
*Smalls, in numbers.

_Locustella nævia_ (Bodd.), Grasshopper Warbler.--Spring: April 27th,
Allonby.

Autumn: *Skerries Rock, one killed at lantern in the autumn, date
uncertain.

_Accentor modularis_ (L.), Hedge Sparrow.--October 8th, Langness, one
at 4 P.M.

_Troglodytes parvulus_ (Koch), Wren.--Spring: April 22d, Langness, one;
*Nash, seven at 10.30 P.M., four killed; 23d, Dee L.V., two killed; May
4th, South Bishop, two killed; 9th, Dee L.V., three killed.

Autumn: October 7th, South Stack, "Wrens;" 19th, Breaksea, one; 20th,
Dee, one; 27th, Nash, one captured.

_Motacilla lugubris_ (Temm.), Pied Wagtail.--Spring: March 19th, Selker
L.V., one caught; 22d, St Bees; Selker, a good many; April 2d, Selker,
a good many passing east; 22d and 23d, Dee L.V., "Wagtails" passing
east.

Autumn: September 5th, N.W. Merioneth, exceedingly numerous; October
28th, Morecambe Bay L.V., "three Dishwashers" at 10.30 A.M.

_Motacilla rayi_ (Bonap.), Yellow Wagtail.--Spring: April 29th,
Allonby, Cumberland.

Autumn: August 4th, *Start, a bird of the year killed at the lantern.

_Anthus pratensis_ (L.), Meadow Pipit.--Spring: April 2d, Selker L.V.,
"Titlarks;" 22d and 23d, Selker, "Titlarks" to E.

Autumn: August 27th, Selker, "Titlarks;" September 5th, N.W. Merioneth,
numerous; October 4th, Cardigan Bay; afterwards present at the chief
movements of the late autumn.

_Anthus trivialis_ (L.), Tree Pipit.--April 16th, N.W. Merioneth, one;
20th, Carlisle; 24th, N.W. Merioneth, several.

Autumn: August 3d and 4th, *Start, several at 3 A.M. each day.

_Anthus obscurus_ (Lath.), Rock Pipit.--Autumn: September 4th,
*Longships, several between 11 P.M. and 2 A.M., two killed.

_Lanius excubitor_ (L.), Great Grey Shrike.--Two shot in Cumberland
in November. A female of the var. _Major_ caught at Skinburness,
Cumberland, on November 2d.

_Lanius collurio_ (L.), Red-backed Shrike.--June 2d, N.W. Merioneth, a
pair.

_Muscicapa grisola_ (L.), Spotted Flycatcher.--Spring: April 22d,
Scotby, Cumberland.

Autumn: August 27th, *Start Point, one caught; and October 19th, "three
Spotted Flycatchers" between 6 and 9 P.M.

_Muscicapa atricapilla_ (L.), Pied Flycatcher.--April 25th, Carlisle.

_Hirundo rustica_ (L.), Swallow.--Spring: March 23d, Bull Point, two at
2 P.M.; 26th, Nash, one; April 15th and 17th, Langness, one each day;
27th, Nash, three; 30th, Nash, forty or fifty.

Autumn: August 4th and 6th, Langness, several; 10th, Carnarvon Bay L.V.
September 4th, South Bishop, a company; 21st, at several stations; last
at Langness and Wolf Rock on October 13th. [This species is recorded in
_The Field_ as observed during November at Lymington on 22d; Penzance,
23d; Falmouth, 27th; Portscatho, 29th; and on the 7th of December at
Bournemouth.]

_Chelidon urbica_ (L.), Martin.--Spring: April 20th, Carlisle; 26th,
N.W. Merioneth.

Autumn: August 6th, Start, one caught; September 3d, Langness, a few;
October 4th, Flatholm.

_Cotile riparia_ (L.), Sand Martin.--Spring: March 23d, Rockliffe,
Cumberland; 25th, Carlisle; 26th, St Bees.

Autumn: August 3d, Eddystone, one caught; 9th, Eddystone, two caught;
September 24th, Eddystone.

_Carduelis elegans_ (Steph.), Goldfinch.--Autumn: October 5th, Chickens
Rock, three at lantern all night; 18th, Chickens Rock, one; 20th, at
same station.

_Ligurinus chloris_ (L.), Greenfinch.--Autumn: October 24th, Carnarvon
Bay L.V., ten on deck all day;

_Fringilla cœlebs_ (L.), Chaffinch.--Spring: March 27th, Lateness, one
at lantern from 2 to 4 A.M. April 23d, Langness, one at 10 A.M.

Autumn: October 7th, Helwick L.V., a large number; 8th, Cardigan
Bay L.V., two; 20th, South Stack, one at lantern, and Cardigan Bay
L.V., two on board at 7.30 A.M. 25th, Portland, sixty at 2 P.M. 26th,
Cardigan Bay L.V., two; November 1st, Scarweather L.V., about fifty at
1.30 P.M. This species appears to be chiefly noted at the light-vessels
during the daytime.

_Fringilla montifringilla_ (L.), Brambling.--October 25th, Bishop
Rock, many "Copperfinches" from 9 P.M. to midnight; 26th, Nash, many;
November 25th, Bishop Rock, a "Copperfinch."

_Linota cannabina_ (L.), Linnet.--Spring: April 5th, Eddystone, two
caught at 9 P.M.

Autumn: August 22d, Langness, a small flock at noon; October 5th,
Langness, a flock at 9 A.M., and Portland, three or four from 1 to 3
A.M. 28th, Carnarvon Bay L.V., with Finches all day; November 26th,
Plymouth Breakwater, two at 10 P.M.

_Linota rufescens_ (Vieill.), Lesser Redpole.--October 15th, South
Stack, one caught at 7.30 P.M.

_Plectrophanes nivalis_ (L.), Snow Bunting.--September 26th, Bishop
Rock, one old bird.

_Emberiza miliaria_, L., Corn Bunting.--Autumn: September 3d, *Nash,
fifteen to twenty between 2.15 to 3 A.M., eight killed.

_Agelæus phœniceus_ (L.), Red-winged Starling.--October 27th, Nash,
one struck and captured at 3 A.M. Mr Nicholas had intended to forward
this specimen to me, but during his absence for a few moments it was
most unfortunately carried off by a cat. He had, however, no difficulty
in identifying the bird from the description given in John's "British
Birds," and promptly reported the occurrence. A skin of the species (an
adult) was at once forwarded to him in order to test his identification
of the bird, and he replied "that the bird killed very much resembled
the one sent, except that the yellow on the wings was rather paler; the
tips of the wings and the back of the neck were more sooty black, and
I think it was a little larger;"--a description indicating an immature
specimen. During the late hours of the 26th of October and the early
ones of the 27th an important migratory movement was taking place at
this station:--At 9.50 P.M., Missel Thrushes; at 10 P.M., Bramblings;
at 10.30 P.M., Snipe (four killed); at 12.40 A.M., Redwings (two
killed); at 2 A.M., Wrens (one captured); at 2.10 A.M., Robins, and
Black Redstart killed; and finally at 3 A.M., the Red-winged Starling.
The wind prevailing at the time was a strongly easterly breeze; the
weather cloudy, with passing showers of rain. Mr Nicholas is a most
careful, intelligent, and painstaking recorder, and shows particular
interest in our work, and there is little likelihood of his being
mistaken in this matter. As an unbeliever in the unassisted occurrence
of extra-Arctic American passerine birds in Europe, I would suggest
that this was probably an escape from some vessel approaching the
British coast.

_Sturnus vulgaris_, L., Starling.--The numbers and the frequency of
the occurrence of this species is again manifest in the returns. It is
impossible to do more than to refer to the diary portion of the report
for particulars. Mr Caton Haigh, in his notes from the N.W. coast of
Merioneth, remarks that many of the Starlings wintering there left
during the second week of February, large flocks passing over flying
due N. On the 26th of June, at 8 P.M., an immense flock passed over
going S. It looked like a long, narrow stream, half a dozen yards wide
and at least half a mile long.

_Pica rustica_ (Scop.), Magpie.--September 28th, Cardigan Bay L.V., two
Magpies flying around the ship at 9.30 A.M. October 22d, Langness, a
Magpie at 9 A.M.

_Corvus corone_, L., Carrion Crow.--April 22d, Carnarvon Bay L.V., six
at 8 A.M. going E. April 23d, Chickens Rock, one.

_Corvus frugilegus_, L., Rook.--Spring: March 23d, Langness, twelve at
9 A.M.

Autumn: October 20th, Cardigan Bay L.V., one.

_Alauda arvensis_, L., Skylark.--Spring: March 23d, Selker L.V., a
small party; 24th, Chickens Rock, great numbers; 25th, at Bahama Bank
and Selker L.V.'s; 26th, Carnarvon Bay L.V., many.

Autumn: September 3d, Eddystone in numbers; afterwards many and often.

_Cypselus apus_ (L.), Swift.--Spring: April 29th, Carlisle. May 9th,
N.W. Merioneth; 11th, Langness, a large flock. June 6th Eddystone,
several.

Autumn: July 7th, Langness, large numbers. August 4th, Flatholm, small
party; 9th, a large flock; 18th, Cardigan Bay, nine at 7.30 P.M.
September 4th, Smalls, numbers; 19th, Lundy, thirty or forty (J. J.
Philips, "Field," October 2d, 1886, p. 510); 20th, Lundy, one (_Id._).

_Caprimulgus europæus_, L., Nightjar.--Spring: May 6th, N.W. Merioneth,
but not common until the 22d.

Autumn: September 3d, *Nash, four at 2.10 A.M., one killed.

_Gecinus viridis_ (L.), Green Woodpecker.--October 26th, Nash. Mr
Nicholas reports a great many birds at the lantern during the early
hours of the morning; at sunrise they passed S.E.; and that a bird of
this species was seen among the others.

_Cuculus canorus_, L., Cuckoo.--Spring: April 19th, Langness, one at 10
A.M. 25th, Carlisle; 27th, Nash, one passed to N.; 29th, Nash, four.

Autumn: August 1st, Nash, two at lantern at 11.30 P.M. September 3d,
*Nash, six [young of the year] at 3 A.M., two killed.

_Accipiter nisus_ (L.), Sparrow-Hawk.--Autumn: September 14th, Bishop
Rock, one appeared; 20th, Chickens Rock, one going E. at 7 A.M. 28th,
Smalls, one in the morning.

_Tinnunculus alaudarius_ (Gm.), Kestrel.--Autumn: October 5th, Wolf
Rock, one; Smalls, one.

_Pandion haliaëtus_ (L.), Osprey.--Autumn: August 16th, Breconshire,
one fishing at Llangorse Lake (Philips, _Zool._, 1886, p. 417).

_Anser ------?_ "Wild Goose."--Spring: March 27th, St Bees, about
twenty at 6 P.M.

------ ------, "Wild Duck."--Autumn: October 19th, a large number at
5.30 P.M.

_Anser segetum_ (Gm.), Bean Goose.--April 27th, about 120 passed over
Allonby in a flock; eight more seen in July; and many seen in October
and November.

_Bernicla brenta_ (P.), Brent Goose.--Present on Solway till end of
March.

_Bernicla leucopsis_ (Bechst.), Barnacle Goose.--October 11th, arrived
at Rockliffe.

_Dafila acuta_ (L.), Pintail Duck.--October 23d, Cumberland, one shot.

_Anas streperus_, L., Gadwall.--Spring: March 11th, two seen at Bowness.

Autumn: August, Breconshire, a female shot (Philips, _Zool._, 1886, p.
417). October (last week of), Solway, a bird of the year shot.

_Mareca penelope_, L., Widgeon.--Spring: Allonby, two flocks of fifty
or sixty on February 11th (evening, flying due E.). Ravenglass, last
seen on April 23d. Flights of this and other fowl began to pass over
Rockliffe in an E. or N.E. direction on April 21st, but the movement
became accentuated on April 27th, on which evening large flocks began
to pass up the Eden at 9 P.M. The movement continued in full swing up
to 10.45, there generally being five minutes, and never more than ten,
between parties; after 11th they continued to pass, but the movement
had become less marked.

Autumn: Numbers at Monkhill on September 13th.

_Clangula glaucion_ (L.), Golden-eye.--Spring: April 26th, last seen at
Monkhill, Cumberland.

Autumn: October 21st and 24th, Allonby, Cumberland.

_Œdemia fusca_ (L.), Velvet Scoter.--December 23d, a fine adult male
shot on Eden.

_Mergus serrator_, L., Red-breasted Merganser.--April 13th, N.W.
Merioneth, a flock of about a dozen, the last seen.

_Turtur communis_, Selby, Turtle Dove.--Autumn: September 11th,
Minehead, Somerset, one. October 3d, Wolf Rock, a "Turtle Dove" at 11
A.M.

_Coturnix communis_, Bonnat., Quail--Autumn: September 3d, one in the
morning. October 5th, Eddystone, two caught at 2 A.M.

_Crex pratensis_, Bechst., Corn-Crake.--Spring: April 26th and 27th,
Carlisle and District. May 9th, Holyhead Breakwater, one at 2 P.M.

Autumn: October 9th, Skerries, one killed between 2 and 4 A.M.; 20th,
Smalls, one killed.

_Gallinula chloropus_ (L.), Moorhen.--Autumn: August 2d, *Nash, one
killed at midnight. September 3d, Dee L.V., one killed.

_Charadrius pluvialis_, L., Golden Plover.--Autumn: August 25th,
Burnham, one killed.

_Squatarola helvetica_ (L.), Grey Plover.--Spring: May 7th, Allonby,
Cumberland, six.

_Eudromias morinellus_ (L.), Dotterel.--May 6th, Allonby, four seen,
and again on the 8th.

_Vanellus vulgaris_, Bechst., Lapwing.--Spring: March 27th, Carnarvon
Bay, ten at 11 A.M.

Autumn: September 24th, Skerries, about twenty. October 25th, Nash,
flocks passing S. from 7 to 10 A.M. 26th, Nash, a large flock at
lantern at 1 A.M. November 23d, Nash, two killed at 11.30 P.M. 24th,
Eddystone, many at night; 26th and 27th, at Selker L.V., Carnarvon Bay
L.V., and Eddystone.

_Hæmatopus ostralegus_, L., Oyster-Catcher.--Spring: April 23d,
Chickens Rock, one.

Autumn: August 3d, Menai, two; 22d, Langness, seven; 27th, Eddystone,
flocks.

_Phalaropus fulicarius_ (L.), Grey Phalarope.--October 10th (about),
near Winchester, one shot.

_Scolopax rusticula_, L., Woodcock.--Spring: March 24th, Dee L.V., one
killed; 29th, Selker L.V., one caught.

Autumn: September 21st, Eddystone, one killed. October 18th and 23d,
Nash, one killed each night; 26th, Nash, two killed.

_Gallinago major_, Gm., Great Snipe.--Autumn: September 9th,
Cardiganshire, an adult male shot on Llanddewihip Mountain; 25th,
Baytor Mere, Devon, one shot. October 22d, North Devon, a bird of the
year shot; 30th, Carlisle, one shot.

_Gallinago cœlestis_ (Frenzel), Common Snipe.--Autumn: October 21st,
Carnarvon Bay L.V., one killed; 22d, Langness, one at 10 A.M.; 26th,
Nash, four passing to S.E. at 9.30 A.M., four killed at 10.30 P.M.
November 27th, Breaksea L.V., one killed.

_Limnocrytes gallinula_ (L.), Jack Snipe.--Autumn: October 31st,
Bardsey, one "Jack Snipe" killed.

_Tringa alpina_, L., Dunlin.--Spring: April 25th, N.W. Merioneth.

Autumn: August 4th, Langness, a large number at 5 A.M.

_Tringa striata_, L., Purple Sandpiper.--October 20th, Solway, one shot.

_Tringa canutus_, L, Knot.--Autumn: August 18th, Dee L.V., thirty at
lantern from 9 P.M. to midnight.

_Calidris arenaria_ (L.), Sanderling.--May 20th, observed on Solway.

_Totanus hypoleucos_ (L.), Common Sandpiper.--Spring: April 16th,
Carlisle; 17th, N.W. Merioneth.

Autumn: August 15th, Ilfracombe, passing E.; 19th, Barnstaple.

_Totanus canescens_ (L.), Greenshank.--March 26th, Solway, last seen;
returned August 16th.

_Numenius phæopus_ (L.), Whimbrel.--Spring: April 2d, N.W. Merioneth,
one, and on 28th a small flock. May 16th, Langness, several at 10 A.M.
20th, Allonby, Cumberland, a few; 25th, Allonby, eight.

Autumn: July 27th, Allonby, two. August 10th, Langness, two. September
4th, N.W. Merioneth.

_Numenius arquata_ (L.), Curlew.--Spring: March 22d, Selker L.V., one
at 8 A.M. April 9th, N.W. Merioneth, many passing overhead during the
night.

Autumn: August 22d, Eddystone, ten at 1 P.M. September 4th, Chickens
Rock, a few in the evening, also at the Skerries, November 27th, Selker
L.V., at lantern all night.

_Sterna ------ ?_ "Sea Swallow."--Spring: Skerries Rock.

Mr Rees says,--"The Sea Swallow always comes to this island true to the
morning of the 6th of May; then they leave for one week, and return
again for the laying season."

Autumn: September 9th and 28th, Wolf Rock. October 2d, 4th, 7th, 13th,
and 19th, a few observed at the Wolf Rock each day.

_Sterna fluviatilis_, Naum., Common Tern.--Spring: April 22d, N.W.
Merioneth, a small flock; 25th, several large flocks. May 13th and
14th, a very large number; the weather rough and wet, with much snow on
the mountains.

Autumn: October 16th, Minehead, Somerset, three.

_Sterna macrura_, Naum., Arctic Tern.--Spring: April 25th, N.W.
Merioneth, a few with Common Terns.

_Sterna cantiaca_, Gm., Sandwich Tern.--Spring: April 2d, Ravenglass;
16th, Allonby (both in Cumberland).

_Sterna minuta_, L., Little Tern.--April 29th, Ravenglass.

_Hydrochelidon nigra_ (L.), Black Tern.--Spring: May 13th, N.W.
Merioneth, three in adult plumage.

_Procellaria pelagica_, L., Storm Petrel.--Spring: May 21st, South
Bishop, six at lantern all night.

Autumn: October 16th, Nash, one killed. November 21st, Eddystone,
twenty-one captured between 6 and 12 P.M. 22d, Eddystone, in numbers
all night; 24th, 25th, 26th, and 27th, Eddystone, in numbers, many
caught.

_Procellaria leucorrhoa_, Vieill., Leach's Petrel.--November 22d,
*Start, one captured at 10 A.M., resting inside one of the lantern
ventilators.

_Stercorarius catarrhactes_ (L.), Great Skua.--October 16th, Minehead,
Somerset, one seen along with other _Stercorariinæ_. (N.W., squally,
showers; sea very high.)

_Stercorarius pomatorhinus_ (Temm.), Pomatorhine Skua.--October 16th,
Minehead, Somerset, twelve, along with other Stercorariinæ. (N.W.,
squally; sea very high.)

_Stercorarius crepidatus_ (Banks), Richardson's Skua.--October 16th,
Minehead, Somerset, six, along with other _Stercorariinæ_. (N.W.,
squally; sea very high.)

_Puffinus anglorum_ (Temm.), Manx Shearwater.--September 3d, Bishop's
Rock, one killed.

_Puffinus ------?_, "Large Shearwater."--September 14th, Bishop's Rock,
"twenty Large Shearwaters during the day--not Manx Shearwaters."

_Colymbus glacialis_, L., Great Northern Diver.--December 21st, Hurst
Point, two injured against lantern in the early morning.

_Colymbus arcticus_, L., Black-throated Diver.--December 29th, Solway.

_Lomvia troile_ (L.), Guillemot.--Autumn: October 28th and 30th,
Longships, Guillemots and Puffins moving S. all the morning.

_Uria grylle_ (L.), Black Guillemot.--September 28th, Solway, a single
bird observed.

_Fratercula arctica_ (L.), Puffin.--Spring: March 3d, Bishop's Rock,
appeared. April 3d, Caldy, first appeared.

Autumn: October 16th, 25th, 28th, and 30th, and November 2d, Longships,
moving S.


Summary and General Remarks.

The Report for the West Coast of England and Wales, and the Isle of
Man, refers to the seasonal movements during 1886 of 104 species.

The first vernal migratory movement occurred on the 24th of March,
and was sustained until the 26th. During this interval _Phylloscopus
trochilus_, _Saxicola œnanthe_, _Pratincola rubicola_, and _Hirundo
rustica_, along with _Turdus iliacus_, _T. pilaris_, _Scolopax
rusticula_, and also _Turdus musicus_, _T. merula_, and _Alauda
arvensis_, were observed--all at the lanterns, save _Hirundo rustica_,
which occurred during the daytime. The weather prior to this
initiatory migration had been severe and unsettled, and the movement
was concurrent with the temporary prevalence of favourable conditions
(_see_ p. 82) over our Islands.

The spring immigrants flowed in gently at intervals during April and
early May. The only rush recorded was on the 23d of April, when many
Wheatears, Warblers, and "Flycatchers" occurred--the movement being
especially pronounced at the Nash and the Eddystone; minor barometric
depressions and low temperature, the wind being N.E., had prevailed
prior to the 23d, on which day more favourable conditions set in,
producing moderate southerly and south-easterly gales, and a rise in
the temperature. The immigration of summer visitors extended until the
10th and 11th of May, when _Phylloscopus trochilus_, _Acrocephalus
phragmitis_, and _Sylvia cinerea_ were killed, and _Cypselus apus_
observed at Langness. Of the transvolant spring migrants, _Numenius
phæopus_ was noticed at Langness on the 16th of May.

August.--The autumnal movements commenced with an emigration of
_Cuculus canorus_, _Cypselus apus_, and _Phylloscopus trochilus_,
several of which were killed at the Nash lantern on the 1st of August.
This was followed by movements of _Phylloscopus rufa_, _Turdus
torquatus_, _Sylvia cinerea_, _Saxicola œnanthe_, _Anthus trivialis_,
_Motacilla rayi_, _Cotile riparia_, and _Cypselus apus_, extending from
August the 3d to the 9th, and chiefly observed at southerly stations.
On the night of the 22d there was a great rush of birds at the Nash,
when some hundreds of _Acrocephalus phragmitis_, _Sylvia cinerea_, and
many _Saxicola œnanthe_ were flying around the lantern from 9 to 10.30
P.M., twenty-nine being killed. Emigrating summer visitors were also
observed on the 23d, 27th, and 31st of the month.

September.--On the 3d there was a decided rush of birds at the Nash, on
which Mr Nicholas remarks as follows:--"There was an enormous arrival
of small birds, the greatest number ever seen here at any one time."
This singular movement lasted from 2.10 A.M. to 3.15 A.M., or a little
over an hour, during which brief interval unfortunate individuals of
the following species perished at the lantern:--_Caprimulgus europæus_,
_Emberiza miliaria_, _Sylvia cinerea_, _Phylloscopus trochilus_,
_Cuculus canoras_, _Passer domesticus_, _Erithacus rubecula_, _Saxicola
œnanthe_, and _Turdus merula_.[16] A general emigration of summer
birds on the 23d and 24th, when a very decided fall of temperature was
recorded, was the only other movement during the month.

[Footnote 16: For further particulars of this interesting movement,
_see_ p. 88.]

October.--There were important migrations of summer birds and partial
migrants on the 3d, 4th, and 5th, commencing simultaneously with the
passing away of adverse meteorological conditions (_see_ p. 91).
Afterwards the records indicate a complete blank until the 18th, up
to which day the weather was exceedingly unsettled, with strong winds
and gales. From the 18th to the 31st, conditions were quieter, with
north-easterly, easterly, and south-easterly winds, and under what
may be termed mildly unfavourable conditions (_see_ pp. 94 and 96),
a steady and unbroken flow of migrants was kept up; during which the
winter visitors first appeared at the stations, where, also, the
departing summer birds put in a final appearance for the season.

November.--The only movement during the month took the form of rush,
and extended from the 22d to 27th. This was, doubtless, occasioned by
the outburst and prevalence of low temperature (_see_ Meteorological
conditions, p. 100) then experienced in our Islands, causing
birds--_Turdinæ_, _Alauda arvensis_, _Vanellus vulgaris_, _Scolopax
rusticula_, _Gallinago cœlestis_, _Numenius arquatus_, and a few
_Regulus cristatus_,--which would otherwise have been contented to
remain with us, to seek more genial winter quarters.

The returns for this section of the coast again bear out the opinions
expressed in former reports,--_First_, That the main body of the
autumnal migrants reach the west coast of Wales and the south-west
coast of England--and probably Ireland, too--by way of the Isle of
Man; the north-western coast of England only receiving a comparatively
small share in these movements; _Second_, That emigrants from Ireland,
and other birds migrating _viâ_ Irish routes, strike the British
coast at the mouth of the Bristol Channel, along whose north shore it
is believed many pass. It seems probable, however, from a careful
examination of the records, that the right wing at least of these Irish
migrants extends as far south as the Land's-End stations, and those
from Land's-End to Start Point. This is made evident by the several
independent--if they may be so termed--and important movements which
are recorded in the diary, for this portion of the coast alone, under
the following dates; August 22d, September 3d, and October 24th, 25th,
and 26th, and which not only indicate the route followed, but also its
origin (Ireland), by reason of the circumscribed area affected.

_Corvus cornix_, _Plectrophanes nivalis_, _Asio accipitrinus_,
_Bernicla brenta_, _Fringilla montifringilla_, and _Passer montanus_
are again absent, or very rarely mentioned in the returns; while
_Scolopax rusticula_ and _Regulus cristatus_ were not at all frequent
during the season under consideration.

Among the rarer or more interesting species observed may be mentioned
_Agelæus phœniceus_, _Ruticilla titys_, _Procellaria leucorrhoa_,
_Stercorarius catarrhactes_, _Anas streperus_, and _Pandion haliaëtus_.

_Gallinula chloropus_, _Pica caudata_, _Gecinus viridis_, and _Emberiza
miliaria_ (many of which occurred at the Nash on September 3d) may be
mentioned as somewhat unusual migrants.

In conclusion, the writer would suggest to his colleagues the
desirability of making an united report, instead of treating it by
sections. This, it is thought, might readily be done, if the diary form
were adopted, by giving under a common date-heading the information
for the various coasts for that particular day; in which case the
information for the East Coast of Scotland might lead, followed by
the east of England, then the West Coast of Scotland, the coasts of
Ireland, and finally the West Coast of England. By adopting such a
readily feasible plan the significance and importance of each movement,
the area covered by it, and the species participating in it, would be
ascertained at a glance; while under the present arrangement, to obtain
such very desirable and simple information, reference is necessary to
no less than five separate reports.

                                                      Wm. Eagle Clarke.

                            ==============

The legs and wings referred to the Reed Warbler in the Irish Report are
reserved for further examination.

                            ==============




                             IRISH COAST.


The number of stations returning schedules shows a slight falling off
since last year; but this is compensated for by some light-keepers, who
take a greater interest in the subject, sending three, four, and even
five schedules. A column has been added to the list of lighthouses,
showing the number of schedules received from each station.

Mine Head, Tuskar, Rockabill, and Innishtrahull are foremost in number;
but good schedules have been received from the Fastnet, Coningbeg,
Eagle Island (East), and Blackrock (Mayo), and a few other localities.

The marked feature of 1886 has been the number of legs and wings
forwarded--numbering about one hundred--cut from birds killed striking
the lanterns. In some cases specimens were received in the flesh; and
it is to be hoped that in all cases of rare birds this will be done in
future. Generally speaking, the legs and wings can be identified with
certainty, and they have been all carefully preserved for reference.
Any doubts which may exist about a species will be removed if the
light-keepers send a leg and wing of every bird killed striking, with
the schedule, in the envelopes provided for this purpose.

The stations sending most specimens were the Tuskar, Rockabill,
and Mine Head; but they were also received from eleven others. The
rarities received were numerous. Mr Thomas Fortune sent the second
Irish specimen of the Wryneck from Arran Island, N., Co. Galway, killed
striking at 2 A.M. on October 6th. The first specimen was shot at
Dunmore, Co. Waterford, October 5th, 1877. From Mr Francis Ryan, of
the Tearaght, Co. Kerry, only four wings and legs were received; but
two of these proved rarities, one belonging to the Pied Flycatcher,
caught at lantern September 21st, and the other to the Reed Warbler,
found dead October 4th. Both species had only once before been recorded
from Ireland. The Pied Flycatcher occurred at Ballina, Co. Mayo, in
April 1875. The Reed Warbler is said to have been shot near Dublin
on December 21st, 1843, but no specimen exists. Another leg and wing
of the Pied Flycatcher, killed striking October 5th, was sent by Mr
George Dunleavy from the Fastnet, Co. Cork. From Coningbeg light-ship,
Co. Wexford, a leg and wing of the Reed Warbler was forwarded by Mr
Patrick Cullen and Mr William Clydesdale. It was killed striking
October 4th, the same date as the Tearaght specimen.

These three species--Wryneck, Pied Flycatcher, and Reed Warbler--are
examples of birds which breed in Great Britain, and have only been
met with in Ireland during the autumnal migration, except the Pied
Flycatcher, which once occurred in April. All the birds were observed
on the south or west coasts.

Taking the other legs and wings in order. The Missel Thrush was sent
from the Tuskar, being the only specimen yet received. A male and
female Redstart were sent from Rockabill, Co. Dublin, by Mr Joseph
Hammond, having been obtained on April 24th and May 9th respectively.
The Redstart has quite recently been discovered to breed in Ireland,
at Powerscourt, Co. Wicklow. The Black Redstart was received from
the Fastnet, Co. Cork, found dead October 30th. It is recorded at
four other stations on the south coast. Its regular occurrence in the
south and east of Ireland has been established by this inquiry. On
July 10th a "Blackstart" is reported at Rockabill, Co. Dublin; but no
specimen having been sent, this unusual date requires confirmation.
The Whinchat, which is in Ireland a local bird, was killed striking
Coningbeg lantern on May 7th. Several Sedge Warblers and Whitethroats
were received from Rockabill, the Tuskar, and other stations. A
rush took place on May 9th. These Warblers were not previously
recognised--"Tits," "Wrens," "Flycatchers," and "Sally-pickers" doing
duty for them, and other allied species. The Grasshopper Warbler (rare
and local in Ireland) was obtained at the Tuskar, having been correctly
identified by Mr Richard Hamilton, from a copy of Morris' "British
Birds" supplied to that station by the Irish Lights Board. The Blackcap
was killed striking on Eagle Island, off Mayo, as late as October 31st,
the leg, wing, and head being forwarded by Mr Daniel Hawkins. A fine
old male Yellow Wagtail (_Motacilla Raii_) was killed at the Tuskar
on May 3d. It is rare and local in Ireland, occurring on the east and
south coasts. The wing and leg of a Skylark, caught striking at Mine
Head on 26th February, was of a much paler colour, and had shorter
toes than the ordinary form. A very large leg and wing of a Skylark
was received from Arklow South light-ship, killed October 28th. The
October immigration of the Chaffinch was evidenced by the production
of legs and wings, and extended to the lighthouses, several miles from
land, off the west of Ireland. A Turtle Dove was received from the
Tuskar in May, and some entries of "Doves" in the autumn, which have
been placed under the heading "Pigeons," are perhaps referable to this
species. The repeated occurrence of the Corncrake, several miles from
shore--killed striking against lanterns between 100 and 200 feet above
the sea-level--must satisfy the sceptical that this bird can fly long
distances and at a high level with great power and velocity. The Water
Rail, which seems so unwilling to fly, was received from the Fastnet
and Tuskar, and the Water Hen from Rathlin O'Birne, both having been
killed striking on 26th and 28th October. The first two stations are
seven or eight miles from the nearest land, and the last, two miles.
The Water Hen is stated by Mr Macginley of Rathlin O'Birne to have
struck "with tremendous force" at 11.30 P.M. This lantern is 116 feet
over sea.

The words "Sand Larks," and "Sea Larks," so vague, and signifying
almost any of the smaller Sandpipers, is now better understood by the
production of legs and wings--those of the Curlew Sandpiper, Purple
Sandpiper, Common Sandpiper, and Turnstone having been sent. A leg and
wing of the Fork-tailed Petrel was forwarded from Eagle Island, W., off
Mayo, caught at lantern in second week of October.

An egg of this species is recorded to have been found on the Tearaght,
Co. Kerry (_Zoologist_, 1886, p. 367). Most of the legs and wings
were obtained at the autumnal migration. The autumn rush of Thrushes,
Starlings, Blackbirds, and Larks took place October 20th to 28th,
on the E. and S.E. coasts, there being little evidence of it on the
W. coast. From 27th February to 1st March another great movement
took place on the S.E. coast, and again about March 27th. At the
N.W. stations a great rush of Fieldfares, Blackbirds, Thrushes, and
Starlings occurred December 17th and 24th, under the influence of a
sudden pinch of cold. The Fieldfares were noticed in great numbers
at Innishtrahull, a rocky islet six miles north of Donegal. Mr M. S.
Kennedy "never saw the like." There was snow, with a very strong wind.
At Rathlin O'Birne (West Donegal) immense flocks of birds--Starlings,
Thrushes, and Fieldfares--passed west December 18th to 23d. The nearest
land to the west of this rocky island is America, and one is puzzled
to know where the birds were going; but this is not an isolated
occurrence--the westerly flight of land birds at stations off the west
coast of Ireland has been noticed on other occasions. The movement is
apparently as reckless as that of the Lemmings. The Ring Ouzel is again
stated to have been seen in the winter (January 15th) at Mine Head. It
is strange that not a single leg and wing of the Grey Linnet, or the
Twite (birds, doubtless, included under the name of "Linnets"), has
yet been received. They seem rarely to strike. There are two or three
instances of the Golden Plover having been killed striking in 1886.
The "Cream-coloured" Gulls seen off Blackrock, Mayo, November 5th, and
also seen in August 1881, April and May 1882, and October 11th, 1884
(see Report, 1884, p. 181), were probably Iceland Gulls. The Gannet is
well known to every light-keeper, and its movements are not likely to
be confounded with any other bird. The entries, therefore, under it may
be examined with confidence. Species which are ill-defined, or named
with doubtful accuracy in the Report, are put in in inverted commas. In
Ireland birds are far less numerous than in Great Britain, and their
movements are less distinctly marked. Few entries have, therefore, been
omitted, for their value cannot be estimated until a number of Reports
have been compared. It is proposed next year to analyse all the Irish
observations.

To all the light-keepers forwarding schedules our best thanks are
due; to those sending legs and wings, and specimens in the flesh, we
are under still further obligations. The interest evinced when three,
four, and five schedules are filled with careful notes, shows the
desire to further knowledge for its own sake, and speaks well for the
intelligence of such observers. The Commissioners of Irish Lights,
and their secretary, Mr Owen Armstrong, continue to give us their
very necessary assistance; and Captain Boxer, E.N., in his frequent
visits to the lighthouses, is ever ready to further the objects of this
inquiry.

                                                 Richard M. Barrington.
                                                 Alexander G. More.


                        List of Light-Stations.

                                                   Miles
                                Sched.             from     Names of
                                Filled.  Au.  Sp.  Shore.   Observers.

   1. Fastnet, Co. Cork,           2     x     x     8    George Dunleavy.
   2. Galley Head, Cork,           o     o     o    --    _No reply._
   3. Old Head, Kinsale, Cork,     o     o     o    --    _No reply._
   4. Mine Head, Waterford,        4     x     x    --    Edward M'Carron.
   5. Dungarvan, Waterford,        1     o     x    --    Wm. Higginbotham.
   5.*Coningbeg Lt.-ship, Wexford, 2     x     x    10    Patrick Cullen and
                                                            Wm. Clydesdale.
   6. Barrels Rock Lt.-ship, do.,  3     x     x     4    Charles H. M'Cabe.
   7. Tuskar Rock, do.,            4     x     x     7    Rd. Hamilton,
                                                            Peter Page,
                                                            & E. M'Kenna.
   8. Arklow Sth. Lt.-ship,
        Wicklow,                   2     x     x     7    Patrick Clancy and
                                                            Alfred B. Wall.
   8.*Arklow North Lt.-ship, do.   3     x      x    8    William Daly.
  10. Kish Bank Lt.-ship, Dublin,  1     x      o    7    Michael Cunniam.
  11. Howth Baily, Dublin,         o     o      o   --    No reply.
  12. Rockabill, Dublin,           5     x      x    5    Jos. Hammond and
                                                            Henry Kelly.
  13. Copeland (Mew) Island, Down, 1     x      o    3    John O'Donnell.
  14. Maidens, Antrim,             2     x      x    5    Michael Barry.
  15. Rathlin, Antrim,             1     x      o    6    John A. Murray.
  16. Innishtrahull, Donegal,      4     x      x    6    M. S. Kennedy.
  17. Dunree Head, Donegal,        1     x      x   --    Jervis Brownell.
  19. Tory Island, Donegal,        1     x      o    9    Henry Stocker.
  20. Arranmore, Donegal,          2     x      x    5    Henry Williams.
  21. Rathlin O'Birne, Donegal,    1     o      x    2    J. C. Macginley.
  22. Killybegs, Donegal,          3     x      x   --    Joseph Hill.
  23. Oyster Island, N. Sligo,     o     o      o    1    _No reply._
  24. Broadhaven, Mayo.            1     o      x   --    John A. Murray.
  25. Eagle Island, E., Mayo,      2     x      x    2    Daniel Hawkins.
  26. Eagle Island, W., Mayo,      o     o      o    2    _No reply._
  27. Blackrock, Mayo,             2     x      x    9    Edward Rohu.
  28. Blacksod Point, Mayo,        o     o      o   --    _No reply._
  29. Clare Island, Mayo,          o     o      o    4    _No reply._
  30. Slyne Head, N., Galway,      o     o      o    3    _No reply._
  31. Slyne Head, S., Galway,      1     o      x    3    Rich. Widdicombe.
  32. Arran Island, X., Galway,    2     x      x    9    Thomas Fortune.
  33. Straw Island, Galway,        o     o      o    9    _No reply._
  34. Arran Island, S., Galway,    o     o      o    6    _No reply._
  36. Samphire Island, Kerry,      1     x      o   --    R. Phelan.
  37. Tearaght, Kerry,             2     x      x    9    Francis Ryan.
  38. Valentia, Kerry,             1     x      o   --    Joseph Williams.
  39. Skelligs, Kerry,             2     x      x    9    James Walshe.
  40. Dursey Island, Cork,         o     o      o    ½    _No reply._

Abbreviations:

  o  = No reply.
  x  = Schedule returned partly or wholly filled.
  Sp = Spring, replies received, 24.
  Au = Autumn, replies received, 22.

                      Legs, Wings, etc. Received.

  Mine Head,          Leg and wing,   Kestrel,        Shot 29th Oct.
  Fastnet,                  "         Pied            Killed striking,
                                        Flycatcher,       4 A.M., Oct. 5.
  Tearaght,                 "                "        Caught at lantern,
                                                        8 P.M., Sept. 21.
  Tuskar,                   "         Missel Thrush,  October.
  Mine Head,                "         Thrush,         Killed striking, Feb. 8.
  Coningbeg Lt.-ship,       "            "            Received June 2.
  Tuskar,                   "            "            October.
  Rockabill,                "            "            Killed striking, Oct. 7.
  Rathlin O'Birne,          "            "            Struck, Dec. 25.
  Coningbeg Lt.-ship,       "         Redwing,        Killed striking, Oct. 26.
  Rockabill,                "            "                  "          Oct. 28.
  Arklow S. Lt.-ship,       "         Fieldfare,      Dead on deck, Nov. 26.
  Rockabill,                "            "            Killed striking, Oct. 24.
  Innishtrahull,            "            "                  "          Oct. 27.
  Mine Head,                "         Blackbird,            "          Oct. 2.
      "                     "            "            Disabled strik'g.,
                                                               Oct. 29.
  Coningbeg Lt.-ship,       "            "            Killed striking, Oct. 23.
  Tuskar Rock,              "            "            October.
  Rockabill,                "            "  (male),   Killed striking, Oct. 7.
      "               Rec'd. in flesh, Redstart,      Shot, April 24.
      "                     "            "  (female), Killed striking, May 9.
  Fastnet,            Leg, wing, and   Black Redstart Found dead on rock,
                        tail,                            Oct. 30.
  Mine Head,          Leg and wing,    Stonechat,     Shot, February.
  Coningbeg Lt.-ship,       "          Whinchat,      Struck lantern,
                                                          3 A.M., May 7.
  Mine Head,                "          Wheatear,      Caught striking, 9.30
                                                        P.M., Aug. 22.
  Coningbeg Lt.-ship,       "             "           Killed striking,
                                                        Sept. 4.
  Eagle Island, E.,         "             "           Shot first week in April.
  Coningbeg Lt.-ship,       "          Reed Warbler,  Killed striking, Oct. 4.
  Tearaght Rock,            "             "           Found dead, Oct. 4.
  Mine Head,          Rec'd. in flesh, Sedge Warbler,       "     May 3.
      "               Leg and wing,       "           May 10.
      "                     "             "           Killed striking, Aug. 22.
  Hook Tower,         Received in flesh
                        fr. Capt. Boxer,  "           September.
  Tuskar Rock,        Rec'd. in flesh, 4 male Sedge   Killed striking,
                                         Warblers,      May 9.
      "                     "          3 Sedge
                                         Warblers,    May 16.
      "               Leg and wing,    Sedge Warbler, Caught striking,
                                                        Sept. 24.
  Rockabill,          Rec'd. in flesh, 4 Sedge
                                         Warblers,    Killed striking, May 9.
  Tuskar Rock,              "          Grasshopper    Killed striking,
                                         Warbler,       11.30 P.M.,
                                                        April 30.
      "                     "          5 Whitethroats Killed striking,
                                         (4 male and 1  May 9.
                                         female.)
      "               Leg and wing,    Whitethroat,   Caught at lantern,
                                                          Sept. 24.


               Legs, Wings, etc., Received--_continued_.

  Rockabill,          Rec'd. in flesh, 5 Whitethroats, Killed striking, May 9.
  Tearaght Rock,      Leg and wing,    Whitethroat,    Shot, May 21.

  Eagle Island, E.,   Leg, wing, and
                        head,          Blackcap,       Killed striking, Oct. 31.
  Mine Head,          Leg and wing,    Willow Wren,    Caught striking, 1.30
                                                         A.M., Sept. 2.
  Tuskar Rock,        Received in flesh                Caught on balcony,
                        fr. Capt. Boxer,    "            Aug. 10.
      "               Leg and wing,    Chiffchaff,     Caught at lantern, Sept. 24.
  Rockabill,                  "             "          Killed striking, Oct. 2.
  Mine Head,          Wing,            Blue Tit,       Shot, February.
  Tuskar Rock,        Rec'd. in flesh, Yellow Wagtail
                                         (fine old male), Shot, May 3.
  Fastnet,            Leg and wing,    Meadow Pipit,   Killed striking, Oct 29.
  Barrels Rock                "             "          Killed striking,
     Lt.-ship,                                           9.30 P.M.,
                                                         Oct. 29.
  Rathlin O'Birne,            "        Rock Pipit,     Killed striking, Oct. 14.
  Eagle Island, E.,           "             "          Shot, Sept. 14.

  Eagle Island, W.,           "             "          Killed striking, second
                                                         week in October.
  Mine Head,                  "        Skylark (pale   Caught at lantern,
                                         wing, claws     Feb. 26.
                                         short),
      "                       "        Skylark,        Caught at lantern,
                                                         March 23.
  Coningbeg Lt.-ship,         "             "          Killed striking, Oct. 28.
  Arklow S. Lt.-ship,         "
                        very large,         "          Caught on deck, Oct. 28.
  Rockabill,          Leg and wing,         "          Killed striking, Oct. 21.
  Rathlin O'Birne,            "             "               "           Dec. 10.
  Eagle Island, W.            "             "          Caught at lantern, second
                                                         week in October.
  Fastnet,                    "        Snow Bunting,   Found dead on rock,
                                                         Oct. 4.
  Rockabill,                  "             "          Shot, Oct. 31.
  Mine Head,          Skin received,   Corn Bunting,      "  February.
      "               Rec'd. in flesh, Reed Bunting,      "  Feb. 8.
      "               Skin received,   Yellowhammer,      "  March 6.
  Fastnet,            Leg and wing,    Chaffinch,      Dead on rock, Oct. 28.
  Tuskar,                     "             "          Killed striking, October.
  Rockabill,                  "             "               "           Oct. 28.
      "                       "        Greenfinch,          "           Oct. 28.
  Mine Head,          Rec'd. in flesh, Goldfinch,      Shot, March 2.
  Fastnet,            Leg and wing,    Starling,       Killed striking,
                                                         7.30 P.M.,
                                                         Oct. 31.
  Coningbeg Lt.-ship,         "             "          Struck lantern, March 2.
  Tuskar,                     "             "               "          October.
  Rockabill,                  "             "               "          Oct. 4.
  Tearaght Rock,      Rec'd. in flesh, Sand Martin,    Found dying, April 20.
  Tuskar Rock,                "        Swift,          Probably shot, May 15.


                Legs, Wings, etc., Received--_continued_.

  Arran Island, N.,  Rec'd. in flesh,   Wryneck,          Killed striking, 2.30 A.M.,
                                                           Oct. 6.
  Tuskar,                  "            Turtle Dove,      Shot, May 12
     "               Leg and wing,      Corncrake,        Caught at lantern, Sept. 23.
  Fastnet,                 "            Water Rail,       Found dead on rock, Oct. 28.
  Tuskar,             Rec'd. in flesh,      "             Caught at lantern, Oct. 26.
  Rathlin O'Birne,          "           Water Hen,        Killed striking, Oct. 28.
  Rockabill,          Leg and wing,     Jack Snipe,              "         Sept. 28.
  Rathlin O'Birne,         "            Snipe,                   "         Dec. 12.
  Coningbeg Lt.-ship,      "            Com. Sandpiper,   Found dead on deck, May 17.
     "       "             "            Curlew Sandpiper, Killed striking, May 31.
     "       "             "                "                    "         Aug. 12.
  Rockabill,               "                "                    "         Oct. 28.
  Rathlin O'Birne,         "            Purple Sandpiper,        "         Nov. 3.
  Eagle Island, E.,         "                "             Shot, April 7.
     "     "          Wing,             Turnstone,           "   April 7.
  Blackrock, Mayo,    Leg and wing,          "             Found dead, Nov. 17.
  Eagle Island, E.,   Rec'd. in flesh,  Stormy Petrel,     Caught at lantern, May 24.
  Eagle Island, W.,   Leg and wing,     Fork-tailed Petrel Caught at lantern,
                                                             second week in
                                                             October.

                        List of Birds Noticed.

                            PAGE                           PAGE
  Hawks,                     127    Golden-crested Wren,    140
  Owls,                      128    Wren,                   140
  Pied Flycatcher,           128    Blue Tit,               140
  Missel Thrush,             128    Wagtails,               140
  Thrush,                    129    Rock Pipit and Titlark, 141
  Redwing,                   131    Skylark,                142
  Fieldfare,                 132    Snow Bunting,           144
  Blackbird,                 133    Common Bunting,         145
  Ring Ouzel,                135    Reed Bunting,           145
  Hedge Sparrow,             135    Yellow Hammer,          145
  Robin,                     135    Chaffinch,              145
  Redstart,                  135    Sparrow,                146
  Black Redstart,            135    Greenfinch,             147
  Stonechat,                 136    Goldfinch,              147
  Whinchat,                  136    Redpole,                147
  Wheatear,                  136    Linnets,                147
  Reed Warbler,              137    Starling,               148
  Sedge Warbler,             138    Chough,                 151
  Grasshopper Warbler,       138    Raven,                  152
  Whitethroat,               138    Hooded Crow,            152
  Blackcap,                  139    Rook,                   152
  Chiffchaff,                139    Jackdaw,                153
  Willow Wren,               139    Magpie,                 153

                  List of Birds Noticed--_continued_.

                            PAGE                           PAGE
  Swallow,                   153    Greenshank,             162
  Martins,                   155    Curlew,                 162
  Swift,                     155    Whimbrel,               163
  Nightjar,                  155    Terns,                  163
  Cuckoo,                    155    Gulls,                  164
  Wryneck,                   155    Manx Shearwater,        165
  "Hoopoe,"                  155    Fork-tailed Petrel,     166
  Pigeons,                   156    Stormy Petrel,          166
  Turtle Dove,               156    Razorbill,              166
  "Partridge,"               157    Guillemot,              167
  Corncrake,                 157    Little Auk,             167
  Water Rail,                157    Puffin,                 168
  Water Hen,                 157    Great Northern Diver,   168
  Golden Plover,             157    Cormorant,              169
  Green Plover,              158    Gannet,                 170
  Sea Pie,                   159    Heron,                  171
  Grey Phalarope,            159    Geese,                  171
  Woodcock,                  159    Ducks,                  173
  Snipe,                     160    "Merganser,"            173
  "Sea Larks," etc.          161    Birds not identified,   174
  Redshank,                  162    Bats,                   174


Hawks.

_Fastnet._--April 17th, two going N.; September 10th, two Hawks
alighted 6 A.M. 23d, one at 7 A.M. killed a Titlark.

_Mine Head._--February 23d, Peregrine Falcon seen to-day, first time
since November; April 10th, hatching on cliff; 19th, eggs taken. More
were laid and hatching re-commenced. August 16th, one Kestrel; October
29th, one shot. [Wing received.] A pair occasionally during winter.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--November 6th, one Sparrowhawk passed N.E.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--September 4th, one Sparrowhawk on deck 10
A.M. hazy.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--November 28th, one Sparrowhawk going N.W.
December 15th, one.

_Rockabill._--February 8th, one Sparrowhawk at noon. March 22d, a
Kestrel; May 23d, Hawks seen; June 30th, one seen; July 22d, one.

_Copeland (Mew) Island._--May 21st, a Hawk at 6 P.M.

_Rathlin Island._--June 10th, a Peregrine hovering.

_Innishtrahull._--April 6th and 7th, one or two about island; wind
strong N.W. and S.W. April 30th, two on island; October 6th and 7th,
November 19th and 25th, December 6th and 13th, one or two noticed.

_Arranmore._--April 22d, two Peregrines; 28th, four Sparrowhawks; June
25th, nine Sparrowhawks about station.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--September 18th, one Sparrowhawk, 10 A.M., on island.

_Eagle Island, E._--April 2d, a small Brown Hawk; October 6th and 31st,
one large Hawk; December 29th, a small Hawk.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--January 22d, one Falcon, 10 A.M., on rock; March
16th, a Sparrowhawk about rock; 22d, two Falcons soaring; April 16th,
one; September 22d, one young Falcon about rock, carrying away head and
intestines of a fish, and chased by a Royal Gull; October 3d, Kestrel,
chasing Snow Buntings, one of which flew into the kitchen; October 4th,
two Falcons; November 1st, one shot, when about to capture pet pigeon.

_Arran Island, N._--June 28th, a Hawk seen; July 25th, one; August 12th
and September, two.

_Tearaght._--May 25th, a very large Hawk, of a brownish colour,
remained on island up to July.

_Skelligs._--August 28th, pair of Peregrines last seen; October 1st,
first appearance since August; left on 2d; November 20th, two.


Owls.

_Mine Head._--July 25th, one flying about 9 P.M.; August 13th, one at 9
P.M.

_Rockabill._--July 22d, "5 P.M.," one seen.

_Innishtrahull._--A White Owl [? Snowy Owl.--R. M. B.] was seen on
west point of island by islanders on 16th January; March 16th, one
"Short-eared Owl" on island.


Pied Flycatcher (_Muscicapa atricapilla_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--October 5th, one killed striking at 4 A.M. wind S.E.,
misty. [Wing and leg received; erroneously entered as "Goldcrest" in
schedule. This is the third specimen killed in Ireland.]

_Tearaght._--September 21st, 8 P.M., one caught at lantern. [Leg and
wing received. The second Irish specimen.]


Missel Thrush (_Turdus viscivorus_, Linn.).

_Mine Head._--They leave here in summer.

_Tuskar._--[October, leg and wing received without date.]


Thrush (_Turdus musicus_, Linn.).

[No doubt frequently confounded with Redwing.]

_Fastnet._--October 18th and 19th, continuous flocks from 10 P.M. on
18th to 9 A.M. on 19th, coming from S.E., going N.W., flying high; wind
E.N.E., then E. Less flocks passed when wind changed. 22d, numbers from
1 A.M. to 5 A.M. about the light; rain.

_Mine Head._--February 8th, one killed striking. [Leg and wing
received.]

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--June 2d. [Received leg and wing of Thrush.]

_Tuskar Rock._--January 25th and 26th, 2 to 3 A.M., Thrushes, Larks,
and Starling; some struck, none killed; clear sky, wind light W.
February 9th, flocks of Thrushes passed W. 3 P.M.; 27th and 28th,
Thrushes, Blackbirds, Larks, and Starlings passed N.W.; wind strong E.;
rain, fog, snow. Migration during night, and on morning of 28th to 10
A.M. Constantly striking, and "countless numbers" killed and disabled.
March 13th, small flocks 10 to 11 A.M. passed N.W.; September 29th, one
killed striking at midnight. From October 16th to 23d Thrushes killed
striking every night, except 22d, from thirty-three on the 16th to two
on the 21st; they were accompanied by Blackbirds and Starling, but most
Thrushes were killed. The wind was strong from E. and N. Numbers were
round the lantern. On 22d, at noon, there were many on the rock; 26th,
four killed striking; 30th, three. November 7th, one found killed;
25th, one killed striking.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--January 25th, several about lantern to
midnight; wind light, hazy. February 11th, three killed striking;
21st, several Thrushes, with Starling, striking at midnight; six dead
on deck; several killed; 27th and 28th, several Thrushes during night
killed against lantern; wind strong S.E. March 2d, several flocks, 2
P.M., going W.; 13th, 2 A.M., about lantern at night; 14th, do.; 20th,
1.30 A.M. to 6 A.M., about lantern; fog. March 27th, Thrushes about
lantern; rain. October 7th, midnight, Thrushes about lantern, none
killed; fog; wind light S.W. 18th, 9 A.M. to noon, several going N.W.
19th, 9 P.M. to midnight, about lantern, one killed striking; wind
fresh N.E., showery; 22d to 28th, numbers passed, mostly at night;
wind fresh from E. 31st, eight killed striking, passing at night with
Blackbirds; wind fresh S.; rain.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--February 11th, hundreds of Larks, Thrushes,
and Stares about lantern; about two dozen killed. 27th and 28th,
several Thrushes during day about ship; wind strong S.S.E. March 1st,
four caught on board; 18th, six killed striking; 25th and 27th, great
quantity of Larks, Thrushes, and "Stares" about ship at night; wind
fresh S.W.; hazy, rain; three Thrushes killed, numbers fell overboard.
April 3d, several about lantern. September 14th, several about lantern
at midnight; 21st, do. October 8th, at 2 A.M., and on 9th, some at
noon, going N.W.; 17th, some at 7 A.M., going N.W.; 30th, about lantern
at midnight, four killed striking. November 22d, two killed striking at
midnight; misty, rain.

_Kish Light-ship._--March 1st, several about ship all day; 2d, do.;
caught one.

_Rockabill._--January 30th, Thrushes at night, striking; several
killed. February 26th, 27th, 28th, Thrushes striking at night; numbers
killed; mist, rain, snow; wind S.E., fresh. March 14th, Thrushes
passing; 22d, about lantern at night. July 15th, a "Mountain Thrush,"
7.30 A.M. September 25th, one on rock. October 2d, 2 A.M., about light,
with Skylarks; 7th, 3 A.M., a number about light; about twelve killed
striking; wind light N., fog. [Leg and wing of Thrush received.] 28th,
10 P.M., a number about light, with Blackbirds, Redwings, Chaffinches,
Greenfinches, etc.; some killed; gloomy; wind S.E., strong. (See under
the various species.)

_South Maidens._--February 20th, one caught on balcony at 1 A.M., and
one found dead. April 20th, one killed striking, 9 P.M. October 4th,
some on balcony during night; 5th, several killed against glass up to
midnight.

_Innishtrahull._--January 17th, one on island. February 22d, one killed
striking, 4 A.M. wind N., fresh, misty. September 26th, one striking.
October 4th, a great number of Thrushes and Larks about lantern,
striking S.W. side; wind strong S.E., hazy. 5th, one; 12th and 15th,
one or two striking, 11 P.M.

_Tory Island._--March 17th, four killed striking.

_Arranmore._--June 18th, two about station. December 21st, Blackbirds
and Thrushes all day; snow showers.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--September 6th, three on island; wind light N.E.;
first seen. December 18th to 23d, flocks of Starling, Thrushes, and
Fieldfare during snow (see under Fieldfare). December 25th, fifteen at
midnight; wind strong W.; four killed striking. [Leg and wing of one
received.]

_Killybegs._--November 8th, two; wind fresh S.W. December 16th, three;
18th, about twenty, with Blackbirds, Larks, and flocks of Starling;
wind light, snow.

_Slyne Head, S._--October 18th, twelve Thrushes, first seen this
winter; wind strong N.E. December 17th, numbers of Blackbirds and
Thrushes; 18th, great numbers of Starlings, Thrushes, Blackbirds,
Larks, Linnets, and Chaffinches on island while snow lasted; wind
strong N.E., snow.

_Arran Island, N._--January 6th, two. November 25th, one. December 18th
to 21st, flocks with Fieldfares, Blackbirds, and Starling.

_Tearaght._--October 17th, a few. November 14th, a great many arrived.
18th, Thrushes in thousands; also a great number of Starling and
Skylarks; snow appears heavy on shore. 24th, a great number left.

_Skelligs._--October 2d, several. November 15th, five "Mountain Thrush."


Redwing (_Turdus iliacus_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--October 22d, numbers, 1 A.M. to 5 P.M., about light; one
killed striking; rain, wind E.N.E.

_Mine Head._--October 17th, one. Plentiful up to date, 20th January
1887.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--October 23d, several Thrushes, 7 to 12 P.M.,
round light; 26th, several Thrushes round light; six killed striking.
[Leg and wing of Redwing received.--R. M. B.] 26th to 30th, several
with Blackbirds, Larks, and Starling round light at night; wind E. or
S.E., strong gloomy rain.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--April 20th, three Mountain Thrushes going
N., rested awhile on ship; light haze. October 30th, Mountain Thrushes
passing 8 P.M. to 3 A.M. on 31st with Starlings, one struck going N.;
showery; wind fresh S.

_Rockabill._--October 28th, 10 P.M., Redwing about lantern, with
Thrushes, Blackbirds, etc.; wind strong S.E., gloomy. [Leg and wing of
Redwing received.] December 14th, one on rock; stormy, wind E.

_Tearaght._--March 3d, a great number of Reel wings and Blackbirds on
island; 25th, last of Redwings and Blackbirds seen to-day. October 6th,
several seen.


Fieldfare (_Turdus pilaris_, Linn.).

_Mine Head._--A few occasionally, from 19th October to date, January
20th, 1887.

_Tuskar Rock._--October 30th, one killed against glass.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--November 26th, Fieldfare dead on deck. [Leg
and wing received.]

_Rockabill._--October 24th, Fieldfares at 11 P.M. about light; several
killed; wind N., strong, gloomy. [Leg and wing received.] December
17th, two, 3 P.M., going W.; wind N., fresh.

_Innishtrahull._--October 27th, one killed striking, 11 P.M.; wind
strong S.E., overcast. [Leg and wing of Fieldfare received.] December
18th to 20th, "a most extraordinary rush of Fieldfares; wind N., very
stormy, with heavy snow showers. They all apparently came from Scotch
coast. I never saw such a rush; the oldest people on island never saw
the like. A great number left on 21st; not one to be seen after 23d."
[None are entered as killed striking.]

_Arranmore._--December 21st, eight Fieldfares; snow showers; also
Blackbirds, Thrushes, and Starling.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--Immense flocks of birds passed here, from
December 18th to 23d, their flight being always to the W., Starlings,
Thrushes, and Fieldfares. [There is no land W. of Rathlin O'Birne but
America.--R. M. B.]

_Eagle Island, E._--December 17th, large flock at daylight on island;
wind fresh N.; 19th, about one hundred on island, 10 A.M. wind fresh N.

_Arran Island, N._--December 18th to 21st, flocks with Thrushes,
Blackbirds, etc.

_Tearaght._--November 18th, a large flock on island (snow on shore);
24th, left island.


Blackbird (_Turdus merula_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--October 18th and 19th, from 10 P.M. on 18th to 9 A.M.
on 19th, continuous flocks with Thrushes coming from S.E., going N.
and N.W.; wind E.N.E. to E. 22d, numbers, 1 A.M. to 5 A.M., about
light; wind E.N.E., rain; one killed striking (female). 23d, two males
captured on rock after night; wind light E., hazy. 24th, one on rock.
25th, one disabled. Blackbirds leave in summer.

_Mine Head._--October 2d, one found killed at base of lighthouse. [Wing
and leg of female Blackbird received.] 19th, one. 29th, one found
injured in garden in morning. [Leg and wing received.] A few seen
occasionally afterwards.

_Dungarvan._--October 26th, one struck 10 P.M. misty.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--October 23d, several round light, 7 P.M. to
midnight; wind E., strong, clear. [Leg and wing received.--R. M. B.]
26th to 30th, several round light at night, with Thrushes, Larks, and
Starling.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--December 5th, one alighted on ship, flew
N.W. December 16th, two going N.W.; wind light E.

_Tuskar Rock._--February 27th and 28th, numbers passing N.W. at night,
with Thrushes, Larks, and Starling; wind E., strong; rain, fog,
snow (see Thrush); many killed. March 13th, 2 to 5 A.M., ten killed
striking; clear, wind E.; most of Blackbird killed were females.
September 24th, 11 P.M., one killed striking. October 18th to 21st,
one to three killed striking each night; numbers around light, with
Thrushes and Starling. 22d, Blackbirds on rock at noon. 23d, two killed
striking. 24th, small numbers on rock. 25th, one killed striking. 26th,
eleven hen and five cock Blackbirds killed striking. 30th, five; during
this October rush the wind was strong from N. to E., and Thrushes,
Starlings, and on 26th, Larks accompanied the Blackbirds. November 8th
and 9th, one seen. 14th, fourteen passed N.W. Two and three noted 21st
and 25th. December 5th, eight at lantern 6 A.M. 6th, flocks passed N.W.
at 8 A.M.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--February 27th and 28th, several about
lantern; many killed striking. (See under Thrush and Starling.) 20th,
about lantern at night, 1.30 A.M. to 6 A.M. fog. March 27th, 9 P.M. to
4 A.M., Blackbirds about lantern; four females killed striking, several
fell overboard; rain. July 21st, one young Blackbird fell into the sea.
October 30th, 8 P.M. to midnight, several; 4 killed striking; wind
fresh S., rain. 31st, two killed striking.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--March 25th and 27th, four killed striking.
April 3d, two ditto. September 21st, midnight, about lantern. 28th and
29th, do. October 30th, about lantern, midnight; wind fresh S., cloudy;
six killed striking.

_Kish Light-ship._--March 27th, flocks about ship with Starlings and
Larks.

_Rockabill._--January 30th, Blackbirds, with Thrushes, Stares, and
Larks passing at night; several of each killed striking; wind S.W.
light. February 26th and 27th, Blackbirds passing at night with
Thrushes and "Stares;" wind S.E., misty, rain, snow. March 14th,
Blackbirds passing. June 6th, several; misty. July 8th and 18th, one
seen. October 7th, 3 A.M., a number, about twelve killed striking; also
Thrushes; wind light N., fog. [Leg and wing of Blackbird received.]
28th, 10 P.M., about light, some killed striking; gloomy, wind S.E.,
strong. December 5th, one on rock. 14th, one during storm from E. 20th,
some on rock; wind N.E., fresh.

_Copeland (Mew) Island._--April 30th, forty; some breed on Island.

_South Maidens._--February 20th, one caught on balcony, 1 A.M. March
20th, one on rock. October 4th, one struck--disabled. 5th, several
killed up to midnight 8th, one on rock all day. "During latter part
October there was a great rush of Blackbirds, Skylarks, and Stares."

_Innishtrahull._--October 5th, 11 P.M., one striking; misty. November
11th, 10 P.M., one striking; wind strong S.W.

_Arranmore._--June 19th, four about station. December 21st, Blackbirds
and Thrushes all day; snow showers.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--November 10th, one on island; wind strong N.E. The
first seen. December 25th, three do.; wind N.W., strong.

_Killybegs._--November 1st, one; wind strong S.W. December 16th, two.
18th, about a dozen, with Thrushes, Larks, and Starling; snow, wind
light.

_Slyne Head, S._--December 17th, numbers of Thrushes and Blackbirds on
island; wind strong N.E., snow. 18th, Blackbirds (see under Thrush).

_Arran Island, N._--February 24th, one Blackbird (male) seen. December
18th to 21st, flocks with Starling, Thrushes, and Fieldfare.

_Tearaght._--March 3d, a great many Redwings and Blackbirds on island.
25th, last seen to-day. October 17th, a few.

_Valencia._--one to four, June 1st, August 1st, 20th.

_Skelligs._--October 2d, several.


Ring Ouzel (_Turdus torquatus_, Linn.).

_Mine Head._--May 11th, one seen; probably breeds here. January 15th,
1887, one seen; shot at, but missed. [See 1885 Report.]


Hedge Sparrow (_Accentor modularis_, Linn.).

_Blackrock, Mayo._--October 20th, one during day; wind light W.

_Tearaght._--Hedge Sparrows and Wrens breed here; but I think a great
many Hedge Sparrows leave in spring, as they are far more plentiful in
winter. [Nests of both seen.--R. M. B.]


Robin (_Erithacus rubecula_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--October 20th, one on rock all day.

_Tuskar Rock._--September 25th, 3 A.M., two at lantern glass; wind
light S.W. November 5th, one on rock, 10 A.M. wind N.W., light.

_Rockabill._--March 23d, "Robins." April 3d, do. September 25th, one on
rock.

_Arranmore._--December 23d, three Robins.

_Broadhaven._--November 8th, one; remains here.


Redstart (_Ruticilla phœnicurus_, Linn.).

_Rockabill._--April 24th, one shot at noon; wind light S.E., fog;
only two seen. [Received a male Redstart in flesh.] May 9th, Redstart
and Warblers passing all night; wind moderate E., misty; caught
one Redstart. [Received one female Redstart in flesh. See under
Whitethroat.] July 12th, a Redstart, 9 A.M.; wind strong S.W.


Black Redstart (_Ruticilla titys_, Scopoli).

_Fastnet._--October 23d, "A small bird about size of a Robin. Dark
slate colour on back, light blue on breast, bill and legs black.
About all day; never saw one of this species before." [Probably Black
Redstart.--R. M. B.] 31st, small bird, name unknown, got dead on rock.
[Wing, leg, and tail of Black Redstart received.] November 21st, one
seen; very dark in body. (Probably old male.)

_Mine Head._--January 18th, one seen. 26th, another. January 19th,
1887, one seen, but not noticed until this date.

_Dungarvan._--December 18th, one seen on lighthouse road.

_Tuskar Rock._--November 7th, one caught on rock--forwarded [not
received.--R. M. B.] 22d, one on rock at noon.

_Rockabill._--July 10th, 11 A.M., a "Blackstart;" wind strong S.W.
Rested for a short time. [This would be an extraordinary late date for
a Black Redstart. The bird should be known at Rockabill, as Mr Hammond
forwarded a fine old male last year.]


Stonechat (_Saxicola rubicola_, Linn.).

_Mine Head._--February 14th, one shot. A few seen during summer.

_Rockabill._--April 25th, one seen.

_South Maidens._--April 20th, one killed striking, 9 P.M. October 9th,
one on rock.

_Rathlin Island._--April 5th and 9th, one to three seen. June 6th, four.

_Innishtrahull._--September 25th and 26th, five to six striking glass
at night; wind strong S., misty.

_Arranmore._--April 16th, two; wind light N.E. November 20th, two, all
day.

_Killybegs._--March 14th, four at 8 A.M.


Whinchat (_Saxicola rubetra_, Linn.).

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--May 7th, one killed striking, 3 A.M.; wind
light S.E., rain. [Leg and wing received.]

_Rockabill._--April 27th, a Whinchat. May 8th, one. October 7th, a
number of "Whinchats" at noon.


Wheatear (_Saxicola œnanthe_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--September 3d, 10 to 12 P.M., large flocks "Stone Chatters,"
fifteen killed striking; wind fresh S.E., misty, rain. Several caught
alive; all seemed young birds. September 4th, numbers, 12 to 3 A.M.,
three killed striking; wind fresh S.E., misty; several on rock all day.
6th, four, 10 to 11 P.M., about light; two killed striking; passing
showers; wind fresh N.W.

_Mine Head._--April 19th, first seen; several breed near. August 22d,
two caught striking, 9.30 P.M.; hazy. [Leg and wing received.] 26th,
two at lantern, 10 P.M. fog. 28th, one at glass; thick fog.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--April 12th, one about ship. September 4th, one
killed striking. [Leg and wing received.]

_Tuskar Rock._--April 12th, passing in small numbers with Chaffinches,
10 P.M. to 430 A.M. six of each killed striking; wind light S.W.,
clear. May 22d, 12 midnight, one killed striking; wind light N.E. July
30th, one on rock.

_Rockabill._--April 21st, two killed striking; gloomy, wind strong
E. 30th, four killed striking; misty, wind S., moderate. July 7th,
Wheatears on rock; 14th, a young one. September 25th, two; 28th, 10
P.M., several about light; misty.

_South Maidens._--April 25th, three on rock.

_Rathlin Island._--May 20th and June 2d, noted.

_Arranmore._--March 18th, six about station, the first seen; wind
strong S.E., misty.

_Eagle Island, E._--April 7th, five or six "Wheatears (Stonechats)" all
day. [Leg and wing of one shot received.]

_Tearaght._--April 14th, one struck, 11 P.M., not killed; fog, 16th,
several seen to-day.

_Skelligs._--March 28th, three all day. 29th, a number flying N.W. at
noon.


Reed Warbler (_Acrocephalus streperus_, Vieill.).

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--October 3d and 4th, several small birds about
light, 8 P.M. to midnight; overcast, one killed striking. [Leg and wing
received, and doubtfully referred by Mr Dresser to this species, who
says that the leg is nearer Sylvia curruca. It is improbable either
species were migrating in any numbers, and most of the small birds were
doubtless other Warblers.]

_Tearaght Rock._--October 4th, one found dead. [Leg and wing received
and submitted to Mr Dresser,]


Sedge Warbler (_Acrocephalus schœnobænus_, Linn.).

_Mine Head._--April 25th, one caught striking; wind N.E., strong
breeze, fog. May 3d, one found dead. [Received Sedge Warbler.] 7th, one
caught striking; wind E., calm, fog; a few against lantern all night;
as many as five seen on sashes at a time. 8th, one found dead, several
striking in night; fog continued. 9th, one found dead. 10th, another.
[Leg and wing received.--R. M. B.] August 25th, a Whitethroat Warbler
found dead at base of lighthouse; probably killed on 22d, during fog.
[Leg and wing received. It was a Sedge Warbler.] 28th, one caught at
glass. September 13th, one in garden.

_Tuskar Rock._--May 9th, 9.30 P.M. to 1 A.M., small numbers with
Whitethroats striking; fog; thirteen White throats and ten Sedge
Warblers killed. [Received four male Sedge Warblers, and five male and
one female Whitethroat in flesh.--R. M. B.] May 16th, three killed
striking. [Received Sedge Warbler.] May 22d, 10.30 P.M. to 2 A.M.,
Whitethroats and Sedge Warblers constantly striking, about fifty of
each killed; wind light N.W. July 29th, one killed striking, 11.30 P.M.
September 24th, one killed striking. [Leg and wing received.]

_Rockabill._--May 7th, Sedge Warblers passing in numbers all night;
rain, wind light S. 9th, Warblers passing all night. [Four Sedge
Warblers received in flesh. See under Whitethroat.] 22d, "Warblers"
passing, several killed.


Grasshopper Warbler (_Acrocephalus nævius_, Bodd.).

_Tuskar Rock._--April 20th, one struck, 11.30 P.M.; wind light E.,
misty. [Received in flesh.]


Whitethroat (_Sylvia rufa_, Bodd.).

_Mine Head._--May 9th, one caught striking; 12th, one singing in marshy
ground. [Probably Sedge Warbler.]

_Tuskar Rock._--May 9th, 9.30 P.M. to 1 A.M., Whitethroats and Sedge
Warblers striking; fog; thirteen Whitethroats and ten Sedge Warblers
killed. [Received five male and 1 female Whitethroat, and four male
Sedge Warblers in flesh.] May 22d, 10.30 P.M. to 2 A.M., Whitethroats
and Sedge Warblers constantly striking, about fifty of each killed;
wind light N.W. September 24th, one killed striking. [Leg and wing of
Whitethroat received.]

_Rockabill._--May 6th, Whitethroats passing; wind light S., misty. 9th,
Warblers passing all night; fog and mist. [Received five Whitethroats
in flesh. See also under Sedge Warbler.] There were immense quantities
of these small birds here on night of 9th inst. 22d, "Warblers"
passing. 23d, Whitethroats passing.

_Tearaght._--May 21st, one Whitethroat shot. [Received in flesh.]


Blackcap (_Sylvia atricapilla_, Linn.).

_Tuskar Rock._--November 7th, one found killed; forwarded. [Not
received.--R. M. B.]

_Eagle Island, U._--October 31st, one killed striking. [Leg, wing, and
head received.]


Chiffchaff (_Phylloscopus collybita_, Vieill.), and Willow Wren
(_Phylloscopus trochilus_, Linn.).

_Mine Head._--April 24th, one caught striking, 1 A.M., fog. May 6th,
one seen. September 2d, one caught on glass; wind N., clear, fine. [Leg
and wing of Willow Wren received.]

_Tuskar Rock._--September 24th, one Chiffchaff killed striking; wind
light S.W. [Leg and wing received.]

_Arklow South Light-ship._--April 25th, 8 A.M., one "Sally-picker"
found dead on deck. [Perhaps Chiffchaff or Willow Wren.]

_Arklow North Light-ship._--May 11th, great flocks of "Sally-pickers"
about ship, 4 A.M. calm, hazy; six killed striking. [May have been
Sedge Warblers or Whitethroats.]

_Rockabill._--April 23d, "Flycatchers" passing all night, numbers
killed striking; gloomy, misty, wind E., light. May 4th, "Flycatchers"
all night; numbers killed striking; wind fresh S., misty. September
1st, two "Flycatchers" all day on rock; clear. 28th, 10 P.M., several
"Flycatchers" about light; misty, rain. October 2d, one "Flycatcher"
killed striking; wind S.E., strong, overcast. [Leg and wing of
Chiffchaff received.]

_Blackrock, Mayo._--April 29th, one Willow Wren all day about rock;
wind strong N.E.


Golden-Crested Wren (_Regulus cristatus_, Koch).

_Rockabill._--September 25th, one on rock. October 7th, 3 A.M.,
Golden-crested Wrens with "Common Wrens," Blackbirds, and Thrushes
about light; fog, wind light N.

_South Maidens._--October 8th, two Golden-crested Wrens.

_Arranmore._--December 21st, one; snow showers.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--December 26th, one on island. Passing snow showers.

_Skelligs._--October 10th, two Golden-crested Wrens.


Wren (_Troglodytes parvulus_, Koch).

_Mine Head._--"A doubt having been expressed in a previous report of
the common Wren being resident on the Tearaght Rock, I have seen it
plentiful there both summer and winter. I believe there are between 60
and 100 always there, and I believe five might be found on the same
extent of ground at Mine Head." [Mr M'Carron has recently moved from
Tearaght Rock to Mine Head. Wren's nest seen by R. M. B.]

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--April 12th, one "Wren" about ship, 5.30 A.M.
[? this species.]

_Arklow South Light-ship._--October 3d, 6 A.M., one "Wren" alive on
deck, caught and let go; hazy, rain, wind strong S.

_Rockabill._--April 10th, "Wrens;" 29th, do. October 7th, 3 A.M.,
"common Wrens" about lantern; wind light N., fog.

_Arranmore._--December 22d, one "common Wren."

_Tearaght._--Hedge Sparrows and Wrens breed here.


Blue Tit (_Parus cæruleus_, Linn.).

_Mine Head._--February 1886 [wing received.] January 3d, 1887, one seen.


Wagtails.

_Fastnet._--April 18th, one on rock.

_Mine Head._--June 16th, three, "not the common species." [From
description, probably Grey Wagtail.] September 27th, four. January,
19th, 1887, one.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--September 24th, one Yellow Wagtail going N.

_Tuskar Rock._--March 13th, one "Grey" Wagtail killed striking, 3 A.M.
wind light E., clear. May 3d, two on rock, one killed. [Received in
flesh--a fine male, _Motacilla Raii_] "They are not the first I have
seen here."

_Arklow South Light-ship._--February 21st, one about ship. September
15th, one about ship noon; wind light N.E.

_Rockabill._--March 1st, one killed striking. May 5th, a Grey Wagtail.
October 7th, 11 A.M., one Yellow Wagtail on rock.

_Innishtrahull._--December 15th, one Wagtail; wind very strong N.E.

_Eagle Island, E._--April 27th, two Pied Wagtails on island; first
seen. May 1st, two. December 6th, two.

_Arran Island, N._--July 25th, two Wagtails. December, the two Wagtails
remained since July.

_Skelligs._--October 2d, two Wagtails.


Rock Pipit (_Anthus obscurus_, Lath.) and Titlark (_Anthus pratensis_,
Linn.).

_Fastnet._--September 4th, 12 to 3 A.M., two killed striking wind fresh
S.E., misty. October 3d, two; 29th, one killed striking; hazy. [Leg and
wing of Titlark received.]

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--October 24th, flocks going N.W.; wind E.,
fresh.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--October 4th, one Lark 9 A.M. 29th, Lark
passing 9 P.M. to midnight, one killed striking; rain. [Leg and wing of
Titlark received.] 30th, small flock of Larks 11 A.M. going N.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--19th and 26th September, one Titlark.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--April 7th, some Titlarks passing N.W.
November 8th, a flock.

_Kish Light-ship._--March 1st, several about ship; 2d, ditto, caught
two. May 2d, one about ship. June 14th, one. August 12th, three on
board.

_South Maidens._--January 31st, three on rock. April 1st, midnight, one
killed striking. October 6th, some about light.

_Innishtrahull._--September 3d, one striking 10 P.M. 5th, four
striking; wind strong S., overcast. 29th, one at lantern. Titlarks [?
Rock Pipits] are resident.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--October 14th, one killed striking, 1 A.M.; wind
light W. [Leg and wing of Rock Pipit received.]

_Killybegs._--October 4th, four at noon.

_Eagle Island, E._--March 27th, three all day. Breed here. September
14th, one shot. [Leg and wing of Rock Pipit received.] October 26th,
four.

_Eagle Island, W._--October, one killed striking, second week. [Leg and
wing of Rock Pipit received.]

_Arran Island, N._--A flock on island.

_Skelligs._--Titlark remains all the year.


Skylark (_Alauda arvensis_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--October 22d, one killed striking; rain. 29th, several on
rock.

_Mine Head._--February 26th, Lark caught striking. [Leg and wing
received (see Preface). They were submitted to the best authorities,
who referred them, after some difference of opinion, to this species.]
March 23d, one killed striking. [Leg and wing received.] November 13th,
one chased into coal store by "Kestrel;" doing well in cage.

_Coningbeg light-ship._--April 21st, three Larks about ship; hazy.
October 14th, one. 28th to 30th, several Larks and Thrushes about ship
at night; gloomy with rain. Some killed striking. [Leg and wing of
Skylark received.]

_Tuskar Rock._--February 10th, 11th, and 12th, constantly passing in
small flocks to N.W. February 27th and 28th, passing at night with
Thrushes and Blackbirds to N.W., numbers killed; wind strong E., rain,
snow, fog. October 26th, eight killed striking; Blackbirds, Thrushes,
and Starling with them (see under each). December 16th and 29th, one at
lantern.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--January 25th, several about lantern to
midnight. February 8th, 4 to 8 A.M., Skylarks about ship; calm and
foggy. 11th, three killed striking at night. A large number floating by
ship in the water in day time. March 13th, 2 A.M., Thrushes, Stares,
and Larks about lantern; four Larks fell on deck, killed; hazy. 14th,
about lantern; wind light N.E., hazy. 20th, Thrushes, Skylarks, Stares,
and Blackbirds, 1.30 A.M. to 6 A.M., about lantern; foggy, light
S.W. wind. 27th. Skylarks about lantern 9 P.M. to 4 A.M., one killed
striking. October 4th, several about lantern 10 P.M. wind, light S.E.,
cloudy; four killed striking, 5th and 7th, several about lantern,
three caught and let go. 18th, 9 A.M. to noon, Larks going N.W. 28th,
Thrushes and Larks 12 to 4 A.M. overcast, wind light S.E. [Leg and wing
received.]

_Arklow North Light-ship._--February 11th, hundreds of Larks about
lantern at night (see under Starling). March 13th, flock coins N.W.
18th, large number about lantern: wind, strong S.E., snow. 19th, flocks
going N.W. 10 A.M. 25th and 27th, great quantity at midnight; hazy,
rain, wind fresh S.W.; two killed striking. April 3d, several about
lantern at midnight. September 14th, several; 28th and 29th, about
lantern at midnight. October 9th, 12th, 18th, noted in day time going
N.W.; 19th and 20th, several flocks going N.W.; 26th, about lantern
at night. November 8th, a flock at noon. December 3d, several about
lantern at midnight; misty.

_Kish Light-ship._--March 27th, several flocks about ship; wind S.W.,
fresh. April 26th, one about lantern.

_Rockabill._--January 30th, Larks, with Stares, Blackbirds, and
Thrushes, passing at night; several of each killed striking. March
16th, a "Woodlark" seen. April 3d, Larks at night. October 2d, 2 A.M.,
about light; misty; one killed striking. [Leg and wing of Skylark
received.] 7th, 3 A.M., a large number about light, 10 killed striking;
also Blackbirds, Thrushes, etc.; wind light N.E., fog. December 4th.
2 A.M., a few about light; rain. 14th, four on rock 10 A.M.; wind E.,
stormy. 20th, 9 A.M., some on rock; wind strong N.E.

_South Maidens._--January 28th, four found dead on flags. February 8th,
four struck lantern 11 P.M.; overcast, gloomy. 9th, a large flock over
rock, none struck. 12th, eleven; wind strong S. April 5th, 25th, and
30th, four noticed. October 4th, several on rock; 6th, large flocks
about light, very few killed. "During the latter part of October there
was a great rush of Larks, Blackbirds, and Stares."

_Innishtrahull._--January 3d, one killed striking, 5 A.M. wind strong
S.W. February 6th, a number about lantern at midnight; overcast, rain,
wind very strong S.; four killed striking. February 25th, three at 1
A.M. striking; clear. March 24th, four at 2 A.M. about lantern, one
killed; wind fresh S.E. June 30th, midnight, two disabled striking;
fog. July 5th, one on balcony 11 P.M. October 4th, 11 P.M., a great
number of Thrushes and Larks about lantern, striking the S.W. side of
lantern; some killed, which struck with great force; wind strong S.E.,
overcast, hazy, 15th, one striking 11 P.M. November 23d and 24th, two
striking; wind light, fog. December 18th, eighty to a hundred; wind N.,
snow, stormy.

_Arranmore._--March 24th, Larks all day.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--December 10th, about twenty at 10 P.M., live killed
striking; wind light W., clear. [Leg and wing received.]

_Killybegs._--March 28th, two in garden. May 7th, six going S.E.
October 2d, six; 17th, 10 P.M., five or six about light; December 16th,
four; 17th, one at lantern 9 P.M. 18th, about thirty, with Starling,
Thrushes, and Blackbirds; snow, wind light.

_Eagle Island, E._--October 3d, one seen.

_Eagle Island, W._--Second week October, one caught at lantern. [Leg
and wing received.]

_Blackrock, Mayo._--November 25th, about lantern until midnight, four
killed striking; wind light S.E., clear to gloomy.

_Slyne Head, S._--December 18th, numbers with Chaffinches, etc., on
island during the snow; wind strong N.E. (see under Thrush).

_Tearaght._--November 18th, a great number (snow on shore). 24th, Larks
have left.


Snow Bunting (_Plectrophanes nivalis_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--October 3d, two on rock; rarely seen here. 4th, one found
dead. [Wing and leg received.]

_Dungarvan._--December 19th, two seen; wind N.W., light.

_Rockabill._--February 17th, Snow Bunting at 3 P.M. October 31st, one
on rock shot. [Leg and wing received.]

_Innishtrahull._--January 17th, five on island; wind strong W., snow
showers. October 19th, numbers of Snow Buntings; wind light E., clear;
left again.

_Tory Island._--January 1st, ten Snowbirds on island; wind N.W., stormy.

_Arranmore._--April 12th, two, in almost summer plumage. June 13th,
two, not in summer plumage. [Perhaps females.--R. M. B.] September
29th, seven, the first seen; wind light S.W.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--December 19th, fifty-five at 9 A.M. wind strong
N.E., snow; ten found dead.

_Killybegs._--December 10th, four: 13th, six.

_Broadhaven._--December 26th, five.

_Eagle Island, E._--March 27th, two on island. October 10th, three all
day. 11th, five; wind strong W.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--October 1st, three. November 18th, thirty; wind
strong S.W., misty. December 9th, fifteen. Still on rock January 8th,
1887.

_Slyne Head, S._--October 18th, one on island.

_Arran Island, N._--January 14th, six on island.

_Tearaght._--October 5th, eighteen on island; not seen afterwards.


Common Bunting (_Emberiza miliaria_, Linn.).

_Mine Head._--February 8th, one shot. A pair seen during summer. [Skin
received.]


Reed Bunting (_Emberiza schœniclus_, Linn.).

_Mine Head._--February 8th, one shot. [Received.] March 22d, another.
January 27th, 1887, I have not seen this species or the Common Bunting
this winter.


Yellow Hammer (_Emberiza citrinella_, Linn).

_Fastnet._--October 3d, one seen.

_Mine Head._--March 6th, several A few always in neighbourhood. [Skin
of one received.]

_Rockabill._--July 20th, 10 am., one seen. December 6th, four on rock;
wind strong S.W.

_Rathlin Island._--May 24th, seven.

_Arranmore._--November 17th, one.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--November 12th, five on island; wind strong N.E.,
rain. Seldom seen.

_Skelligs._--November 15th, three Yellow Hammers.


Chaffinch (_Fringilla cœlebs_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--October 23d, one on rock; 24th, two. 25th, eleven; wind
E., fresh. 27th and 28th, several about light all night; drizzling
rain, wind light E.N.E. [Leg and wing received.] 30th, several about
light with Greenfinches, 1 to 3 A.M. misty, wind light S.

_Mine Head._--October 23d, one; several afterwards. "Yellow Bunting,
Greenfinch, and Chaffinch go farther inland in breeding season."

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--October 20th, small flocks going N.; wind
fresh N.W. November 6th, three.

_Tuskar Rock._--March 1st, nine on rock, noon; wind strong N.E. April
12th, 10 P.M. to 4 A.M., small number passed with Wheatears, six of
each killed striking; clear. October 22d, one at noon; 24th, one
on rock. 30th, two killed striking; overcast, rain. [Leg and wing
received.] November 6th, one on rock; 7th, four; 9th, one found killed;
21st, two on rock.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--March 1st, large flock of "Finches."
December 8th, flock passed N.W., 2 P.M.

_Rockabill._--February 11th, one. April 10th, Chaffinches. October
8th, six at 8 A.M. fog. 28th, 10 P.M., about light, with Greenfinches,
Redwings, Blackbirds, and Thrushes; wind strong S.E., gloomy. [Leg and
wing received.]

_Arranmore._--December 22d, two.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--October 24th, one. 28th, twelve during day; wind
light S.E., misty.

_Slyne Head, S._--October 28th, three; wind strong S.E. December 18th,
many while snow lasted (see under Starling).

_Tearaght._--October 20th, several arrived, mostly females.


Sparrow (_Passer domesticus_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--April 18th, one; wind E.S.E., clear.

_Rockabill._--March 23d, "Sparrows."

_Rathlin Island._--June 1st, a flock at station.

_Arranmore._--September 21st, four.

_Killybegs._--March 10th, four Sparrows in garden. June 11th, four.

_Broadhaven._--September 20th, seven remain here. October 7th, a flock.


Greenfinch (_Coccothraustes chloris_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--October 29th, one died on rock exhausted; wind fresh S.W.
30th, some around light in night.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--April 15th, three passed N.; wind N.

_Rockabill._--April 13th, Green Linnet at noon. October 28th,
Greenfinches about light. 10 P.M., with Thrushes, etc.; gloomy, wind
strong E. [Leg and wing received.] December 6th, three on rock; wind
strong S.W. 26th, some on rock: wind light S.W.

_Broadhaven._--September 23d, about eighty going S. October 3d, forty
do.


Goldfinch (_Carduelis elegans_, Steph.).

_Mine Head._--March 2d, one shot. [Received Goldfinch in flesh.]
Another seen once or twice afterwards. January 1887, observed twice
during winter.

_Arranmore._--September 3d, three. They breed on island. December 22d,
seventeen.


Redpole (_Linota rufescens_, Vieill.).

_Rockabill._--April 7th, Redpoles seen at noon.


Linnets.

_Fastnet._--September 15th, four Grey Linnets at 10 P.M. about light.

_Mine Head._--January 25th, February 25th, Twite noticed. May 11th,
found Twites' nests, in some of which were six eggs. Common summer and
winter.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--March 25th, seven going N. April 15th,
small flock, 6 P.M., going X. 24th, about fifteen passed 7.30 P.M. two
struck, fell overboard; fog. September 26th, four going N.E. October
19th, small flock going N.W. December 20th, three small flocks, 11
A.M., going N.W.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--September 28th, three going N.W.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--November 5th, 2 P.M., large flock going W.

_Rockabill._--March 2d, Linnets passing S. all day; snow showers; wind
N., strong. October 7th, a flock, 11 A.M. December 10th, four on rock;
wind strong W. December 16th, six "Red-breasted Linnets" on rock, 11
A.M. 26th, Linnets on rock.

_South Maidens._--October 8th, two Grey Linnets.

_Innishtrahull._--October 23d, twenty "Scotch Linnets;" wind strong S.E.

_Arranmore._--September 9th, eighteen going N.W.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--September 15th, twenty-five Linnets, 9 A.M., going
W. November 8th, twenty to thirty on island; wind light W.

_Killybegs._--March 6th, six Grey Linnets came from W. April 4th, six.
June 26th, and October 20th, about twenty. December 16th, about twenty.

_Broadhaven._--September 16th, six remain here.

_Eagle Island, E._--March 27th, several Linnets [Twite?]; they breed
here. April 12th, two pair. October 30th, about three hundred Linnets;
wind light S.E.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--October 7th, twelve Grey Linnets about rock.

_Slyne Head, S._--October 19th, flocks seen around dwellings; wind
light, December 18th, Linnets, with Chaffinches, Thrushes, etc., while
snow lasted.

_Arran Island, N._--December 18th to 21st, flocks, with Starling,
Fieldfare, Thrushes, and Blackbirds.

_Tearaght._--October 17th, several flocks of Twites.

_Valencia._--June 5th, few Grey Linnets.


Starling (_Sturnus vulgaris_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--October 25th, one all day. 27th and 28th, several all night
about light, one disabled; drizzling rain. 29th, several at night with
other birds not known; hazy. A flock of several hundreds on rock in
morning. 31st, 7 to 8 P.M., several about light; rain; one killed.
November 6th, two on rock. [Leg and wing received.]

_Mine Head._--February 26th, one caught striking. March 19th, one
struck, 4 A.M. fog. 26th, striking all night; as many as a dozen on
sashes together; thick fog. 27th, striking at night plentifully; none
seen in neighbourhood of lighthouse during day time. August 24th, a
flock seen to-day. October 20th, a flock. 22d, striking from 11 P.M. to
3 A.M. heavy rain; a few caught. November 7th, flocks in fields. 11th,
one struck glass, 2 A.M. Flocks occasionally seen up to January 15th,
1887.

_Dungarvan._--October 28th, one struck, 2 A.M.; wind light, misty.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--March 2d, one struck. [Leg and wing of
Starling received.] October 20th, two flocks going N.E.; wind N. 23d,
several around light, 7 P.M. to midnight. 24th, flocks passed N.W. 26th
to 30th, several Thrushes, Larks, Blackbirds, and Starling about the
light at night; many struck and fell overboard; rain, gloomy.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--March 25th, a few Starling, 8 to 12 P.M.,
about ship; fog, wind fresh S.W. October 20th, flocks passing N.; wind
fresh N.W. 22d, flocks going N., 10 A.M. to 5 P.M., at intervals; wind
N., fresh. 24th, 6 P.M. to midnight, flocks passing N.; wind E. 26th
and 27th, passing all night to N.; cloudy; one struck, fell overboard.
29th, 30th, and November 1st, passing at night to N.; wind S. and
S.W., moderate, rainy and cloudy. On 30th October, 9 P.M. to 3 A.M.
31st, accompanied by "Mountain Thrushes," one of each struck and fell
overboard.

_Tuskar Rock._--February 28th, 8 P.M. to 7 A.M., many passing, with
Thrushes, Blackbirds, and Larks, to N.W.; wind E., strong, rain, fog,
snow; several killed. March 13th, 1 A.M. to 5 A.M., wind light E.;
twelve killed striking; clear. July 28th, 11 P.M., one killed striking;
overcast, misty. October 16th, five killed striking. 17th, nine do.
18th, seven do. 19th, four do. 20th, five do. 21st, three do. All at
night, from 10 P.M. to 4 A.M. wind N. to E., fresh. Numbers around
light on these nights, with Blackbirds and Thrushes. 22d, at noon
numbers on rock. 23d, nine killed striking. 24th, in small numbers
on rock. 25th, two killed striking. 26th, three killed; a number
at lantern glass. During this rush, from October 16th to 27th, the
Starlings were accompanied by Thrushes and Blackbirds--numbers of which
were also killed. [Leg and wing received.--R. M. B.] November 21st,
four on rock. 23d, three at lantern. 29th, two on rock. December 29th,
one killed striking.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--February 10th, one killed striking. 11th,
three. 21st, several at midnight killed striking; hazy. 27th and 28th,
several Thrushes, Blackbirds, and Starling at night killed striking,
fell overboard; wind strong S.E.; rain and snow. March 2d, 2 P.M.,
Starling going W. 13th, 2 A.M., about lantern; wind light, hazy. 14th,
do. 20th, 1.30 A.M. to 6 A.M., with Skylarks, Thrushes, and Blackbirds
about light; fog, wind light. March 27th, 9 P.M. to 4 A.M., "Stares"
about lantern. 28th, 10 P.M., several about lantern. October 19th, 9
P.M. to midnight, about lantern.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--February 10th, large flock at noon going
N. 11th, there were hundreds of Larks, Thrushes, and "Stares" about
lantern during middle watch; about two dozen killed. 27th and 28th,
several; wind strong S., gloomy. March 1st, four caught on board. 18th,
large numbers all night about lantern; wind strong S.E., snow showers.
25th and 27th, great quantity of Larks, "Stares," and Thrushes about
lantern at night; five Stares killed striking; numbers fell overboard.
October 26th, some about lantern, midnight. December 3d, several about
lantern, midnight; misty. 8th, flock passed N.W., 2 P.M.

_Kish Light-ship._--March 27th, flocks about ship.

_Rockabill._--January 30th, Stares passing at night, with Larks,
Thrushes, and Blackbirds; several of each killed striking. February
27th and 28th, passing at night with Blackbirds and Thrushes; large
numbers killed striking; rain, snow, fog. March 22d, large numbers
passing with Thrushes all night; fog, many killed striking. June 6th,
several Stares. July 17th and 26th, some noticed in day time; rain and
misty. October 4th, 1 A.M., several; two killed striking; overcast.
[Leg and wing received.--R. M. B.] December 1st, several flocks going
W. 4th, 2 A.M., a few about light; misty, rain. 14th, forty on rock;
stormy, from E. 20th, Starling on rock.

_Copeland (Mew) Island._--May 7th, six at 10 P.M., three killed
striking; misty.

_South Maidens._--January 26th, fifty at 11 A.M. April 25th, two.
October, "During last part there was a great rush of Blackbirds,
Skylarks, and Stares."

_Rathlin Island._--April 3d, four.

_Innishtrahull._--October 17th, one on island; wind strong N.E., clear.
This is the first seen since last winter. It seemed very tired, and was
quite tame.

_Arranmore._--December 21st, Starling, with Blackbirds, Thrushes, and
Fieldfares.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--October 2d, six going W.; wind light S.; the first
seen this winter. December 18th, 8 A.M., about two hundred; stormy,
from N.E., with snow; came from shore. Fifteen killed striking. Immense
flocks remained four days on island during snow. (See under Fieldfare.)

_Killybegs._--November 19th, several flying about light, 7.30 P.M.;
gale from S.W. December 1st, flocks, 9 A.M. 8th, several flocks in
neighbourhood; gale from S.W. 18th, small flocks flying about; snow,
wind light; also Thrushes, Larks, and Blackbirds.

_Broadhaven._--November 18th, Starling in flocks; remain here.

_Eagle Island, E._--May 6th, one on island. October 24th, about one
thousand, at 8 A.M., going inland; wind E., light. 29th, large flock
going S.W.; wind S.W., light. 31st, 7.30 A.M., several thousand going
W.; wind fresh S., clear. November 1st, several thousand in morning
going W.; wind strong S.W. December 10th, several round lantern, 10
P.M.; rain. 19th, small flock on island, 10 A.M. wind fresh N.

_Slyne Head, S._--October 28th, sixteen on island; the first seen.
December 18th, numbers with Thrushes, Blackbirds, Larks, Linnets, and
Chaffinches, while snow lasted; wind strong N.E., snow.

_Arran Island, N._--October 25th to 28th, flocks all day. December 18th
to 21st, flocks, with Linnets, Fieldfares, Thrushes, and Blackbirds.

_Tearaght._--February 15th, large flock on island. March 27th, all have
left. November 14th, great many arrived. 18th, a great number with
Thrushes. (See under Thrush.)

_Skelligs._--November 11th, a great number. Remained all the month.


Chough (_Pyrrhocorax graculus_, Linn.).

_Mine Head._--April 14th, gathering material for nests; breed on
cliffs. Seven or eight nests within three miles.

_Rathlin Island._--June 20th, eight remain here.

_Arranmore._--June 9th, two Choughs. December 4th, five all day.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--October 20th, two. 24th, one on rock.

_Tearaght._--March 25th, Choughs have left, except two breeding.

_Skelligs._--September 20th, two left--being here all season. October
6th to 10th, four.


Raven (_Corvus corax_, Linn.).

_Mine Head._--March 16th, a pair always in neighbourhood; breed on
cliff near lighthouse; young birds in nest now.

_Rathlin Island._--June 16th, two Ravens; remain here.

_Dunree Head._--Two noted May 20th, October 26th, and December 30th,
going W.

_Arranmore._--June 26th, two; December 22d, two. They remain all the
year.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--September 28th, two; they build on a cliff to the
S.W. of island.

_Broadhaven._--October 7th, two going W.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--April 25th, two "small Ravens."

_Tearaght._--March 10th, two about island.

_Skelligs._--September 1st, four; remained until 10th. November 20th,
four.


Hooded Crow (_Corvus cornix_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--April 17th, three, remained all day.

_Innishtrahull._--April 14th, two Grey-backed Crows during day. "They
are destructive to the young lambs, and pick out their eyes and
tongues." July 11th to 21st, seven old and young ones about island.

_Arranmore._--June 4th, two Grey Crows. November 23d, two.

_Arran Island, N._--May 10th, four on island.

_Tearaght._--August 22d, nine seen.

_Valencia._--August 6th, two.

_Skelligs._--September 1st, five; remained until 10th. November 21st,
four; remained all month.


Rook (_Corvus frugilegus_, Linn.).

_Mine Head._--August, "many died in July from hunger." [January?]

_Coningbeg light-ship._--April 22d, two "Crows" passed N.W. at 7 A.M.
wind N.E., light, clear.

_Barrels Rock light-ship._--April 3d, one "Crow" going N.; wind fresh
S.W., clear. October 16th, one Crow going N.W.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--March 29th, some "Crows," 9 A.M., going
N.W.; wind light W.

_Rockabill._--March 25th, "Crows" seen. June 16th, "Crows" seen.
October 6th, six on rock.

_South Maidens._--February 10th, five "Crows" going W. March 20th, a
flock going N.E.; wind light, clear. April 7th, four.

_Arranmore._--On 18th July large quantities of Rooks and their young
came from the mainland; they remained five days. December 22d, one.

_Broadhaven._--October 14th, sixty going S.

_Eagle Island, E._--April 29th, three Rooks flew inland.

_Arran Island, N._--August 20th, four "Crows."

_Valentia._--August 27th and 29th, four "Black Crows."


Jackdaw (_Corvus monedula_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--October 26th, three on rock; clear; wind E., light.

_Mine Head._--August 13th, Daws may be seen daily.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--March 28th, flock going N.E., 10 A.M.

_Rockabill._--March 23d, Jackdaws at noon.

_Rathlin Island._--June 18th, three; remain here.


Magpie (_Pica rustica_, Scop.).

_Dunree Head._--September 20th, three.

_Arranmore._--November 24th, one at 8 A.M.


Swallow (_Hirundo rustica_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--April 18th, two; first seen this season; wind E.S.E.

_Mine Head._--April 14th, first seen; plentiful in summer. Swallows and
Martins left about 20th October.

_Dungarvan._--September 20th, 11 A.M., wind light E.; gloomy, misty.
Hundreds of House Swallows resting on lighthouse walls, and going S.E.
October 4th, a few stragglers, 8 A.M. to noon, passing in twos and
threes to S.E.; fog. November 1st, one struck lantern 7.30 A.M.; not
killed.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--April 12th, one going N. A few noted at
intervals, April 15th to May 7th and 8th, when "a flock" passed N.E.;
wind S.E. and S. On 23d many passed during day. September 16th and
20th, flocks passing S.; wind fresh S.E., clear.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--April 27th, three about ship. May 8th,
small flocks going S.E.; fog; 19th to 23d, odd Swallows going N.; on
23d, several rested on ship, then flew N. September 15th to 21st,
passing all day to S.E.; clear, wind N.E. to S.E.

_Tuskar Rock._--May 9th, a flock alighted on rock at 6 A.M.; 19th,
10 to 11 A.M., large flocks passed to N.W.; seemed tired; wind light
S.E. "I particularly notice a falling off in Swallows this summer."
September 25th, 8 A.M., Swallows in a flock on the rock.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--April 5th, two flying N.W. Also noted 12th
and 23d. May 3d, 4th, and on 8th, several about lantern. Direction of
flight generally N.W. June 28th, three. September 15th, two; 19th,
flock flying high to S.E.; 28th, several about ship; wind S.W., cloudy.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--May 9th and 10th, several flocks going
N.W. in forenoon; wind variable. 11th, great flock about ship 2 P.M.
September 17th, six going S.; 20th, flocks going S.W. October 5th, two
flocks going S.W.

_Kish Light-ship._--May 16th, flock going N.W.

_Rockabill._--April 26th, Swallows passing all day. May 11th, Swallows
passing. June 28th, large flocks all day going W.; wind light S.W.
September 25th, nine passing from W. to E. October 5th, five going E.

_Copeland (Mew) Island._--May 5th, sixty.

_South Maidens._--April 25th, two on rock.

_Rathlin Island._--April 19th, four; 23d, two. Noted May 6th and 7th.

_Dunree Head._--July 12th, ten. August 1st, flocks at station. 18th, in
great numbers; wind light S.W. Swallows breed near lighthouse.

_Arranmore._--May 26th, one. November 28th, three Swallows all day;
wind S.E., fresh, clear. [Very late.]

_Killybegs._--April 26th, four Swallows.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--April 16th, one about rock; wind N., light.

_Arran Island, N._--May 9th, two seen.

_Tearaght._--April 25th, one on island. May 1st, one; 18th, twelve.

_Skelligs._--April 24th, three flying about.


Martins.

_Fastnet._--September 22d, at 10 A.M., about rock. Left for N.E.

_Mine Head._--May 1st, House Martin. Plentiful all summer.

_Tuskar Rock._--April 13th, one Martin on rock, 10 A.M. 22d, small
numbers going N.W.

_Tearaght._--April 20th, one Sand Martin found dying. [Received in
flesh.]


Swift (_Cypselus apus_, Linn.).

_Tuskar Rock._--May 15th, one alighted 3 A.M. wind strong N. [Leg and
wing of Swift received.] June 19th and 20th, one seen. July 28th, 11.30
P.M., one killed striking; overcast, misty.

_Rockabill._--May 30th, Swifts all day.

_Innishtrahull._--One noted May 1st to June 7th at intervals.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--September 19th, one about rock.


Nightjar (_Caprimulgus europæus_, Linn.).

_Mine Head._--May 29th, one heard at 2.30 A.M.


Cuckoo (_Cuculus canorus_, Linn.).

_Mine Head._--May 7th, first heard.

_Copeland (Mew) Island._--May 9th, one on island.

_Rathlin Island._--May 10th, one at 6 A.M.

_Arranmore._--May 15th, one, the first seen.


Wryneck (_Iynx torquilla_, Linn.).

_Arran Island, N._--October 6th, 2.30 A.M., wind very light S.W.; blue
sky, cloudy, misty. One killed striking. [Received in flesh a male
Wryneck, very fat, being the second Irish killed specimen; the first
having been obtained at Dunmore, Co. Waterford, 5th October 1877.]


"Hoopoe."

_Rockabill._--June 12th, one on rock.


Pigeons.

_Fastnet._--October 5th, one "Dove" on balcony. Struck by keeper; fell
into sea; wind fresh S.E.

_Mine Head._--April 15th, about a dozen breed in caves near lighthouse.
A few may always be seen. December 26th, about fifty Rock Pigeons in
fields. January 1st, a dozen.

_Dungarvan._--September 23d, Rock Pigeons all day about station. Not
plentiful here.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--October 3d, one "Dove" alighted on ship,
then flew N.; wind S.E., fresh.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--September 5th, one "Dove" on deck, 8 A.M.
calm, cloudy.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--December 11th, one passed to N.W.; wind
S.W., light.

_Kish Light-ship._--March 1st, caught one on deck at 2 P.M.

_Rockabill._--February 13th, one shot. April 20th, one do. June 27th,
one Rock Dove. July 4th, one.

_Innishtrahull._--January 17th, three Rock Pigeons, one shot. March
13th, eleven, breed in caves. September 8th, two. November 18th, five.
Pigeons are resident.

_Dunree Head._--Noted April 28th, May 10th, July 20th, October 4th,
December 8th, from three to ten each date, all going S.E.

_Arranmore._--May 27th, Rock Pigeons about all day.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--December 27th, two Pigeons came to island, one blue
and one white. They remained, and are tame.

_Broadhaven._--November, Rock Pigeons at all times. Remain here.

_Arran Island, N._--May 4th, seven; 8th, ten, going S.; 24th, five do.

_Skelligs._--December 4th, one Pigeon all day.


Turtle Dove (_Turtur communis_, Selby).

_Tuskar Rock._--May 8th, one alighted on rock, 8 A.M. wind light S.E.;
12th, one on rock, shot. [Received in flesh.--R. M. B.] "I saw one or
two every year since I came here, but could not tell what they were
until I got this one."


"Partridge."

_Rockabill._--May 9th, "Partridges" at night. [There was an entry under
Partridge last year, also at Rockabill. Some error--Quails?]


Corncrake (_Crex pratensis_, Bechst.).

_Mine Head._--May 10th, heard, and frequently afterwards.

_Tuskar Rock._--May 3d, one found dead; 23d, one on rock; fog.
September 23d, 11 P.M., one caught alive at lantern glass; wind light
N., cloudy; 24th one killed striking. [Leg and wing received.]

_Rockabill._--May 9th, Corncrakes passed at night; 11th, do., some
killed striking.

_Rathlin Island._--April 27th, one. May 13th, one.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--May 20th, Landrail at noon on rock; misty, wind
light N.E.

_Skelligs._--April 27th, one at noon, going N.; wind S.E.


Water Rail (_Rallus aquaticus_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--October 28th, one killed striking; got on rock after night;
drizzling rain. [Leg and wing received.]

_Tuskar Rock._--October 26th, one caught at lantern; wind E., fresh.
[Received in flesh.]


Water Hen (_Gallinula chloropus_, Linn.).

_Rathlin O'Birne._--October 28th, 11.30 P.M., wind moderate S.E., very
dark; "one struck S.W. side of lantern with tremendous force, and was
killed instantly." [Received in flesh.] "I never observed one in this
locality before."


Golden Plover (_Charadrius pluvialis_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--October 5th, one killed striking, 4 A.M. misty, wind S.E.

_Mine Head._--January 18th, noticed in flocks; also 3d and 18th March.
They leave during summer. October 23d, in flocks to-day, and frequently
up to January 1st, 1887.

_Dungarvan._--December 26th, numbers "Grey" Plover in fields.

_Tuskar Rock._--March 1st, one passed N.; wind strong N.E., misty.
April 21st, a flock passed N.W. 10 P.M.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--March 13th, one "Plover;" wind light, hazy;
killed striking, 2 A.M. October 3d, one "Grey" Plover.

_Rockabill._--March 1st, one "Grey" Plover killed striking; wind strong
N.E., snow. March 12th, large flocks Golden Plover going N.

_South Maidens._--February 27th, a flock of "Grey" Plover going W.;
wind strong S.E. April 1st, one hundred "Grey" Plover going N.W.; wind
S., clear.

_Innishtrahull._--October 17th, one going W. December 18th, sixteen;
wind N., snow, very stormy. Left on 21st.

_Tory Island._--February 5th, two "Plover" killed striking.

_Arranmore._--April 29th, two Golden Plover going N.E. December 23d,
one.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--October 3d, one on island, shot. December 19th,
thirty came from mainland; wind strong N.E., snow; five shot.

_Killybegs._--November 12th, about a dozen; wind strong N.W. December
6th, twenty; wind strong S.W.

_Broadhaven._--November 1st, flocks.

_Eagle Island, E._--April 28th, one shot.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--April 16th, one. 28th, 11 P.M., flock about
lantern; misty. October 4th, one on rock.

_Slyne Head, S._--November 4th, four "Grey" Plover going S.


Green Plover (_Vanellus vulgaris_, Bechst.).

_Mine Head._--January 18th, great flocks going seaward in a S.W.
direction; frosty, wind N. 26th, a few. March 1st, 2d, and 16th,
in fields; leave during summer. October 23d, in flocks to-day, and
frequently up to January 1st, 1887.

_Dungarvan._--November 5th, large flocks of Lapwing about. 26th, large
flocks flying to and from half tide rock. December 26th, numbers about.

_Tuskar._--February 9th, one Peewit passed W., 11 A.M. March 1st and
13th, one or two on rock. October 27th, one, 3 A.M.

_Rockabill._--February 24th, one. 28th, Lapwing at night. March 1st,
large flocks going S. 2d, some going S. 19th, some seen.

_Copeland (Mew) Island._--April 16th, twenty about; wind light, clear.

_South Maidens._--April 24th, three Green Plover going N.W.; rain.
October 6th, some about light at night.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--December 29th, eight came from shore; wind N.W.,
fresh; two shot.

_Broadhaven._--November 1st, one Peewit.

_Eagle Island, E._--April 28th, one Lapwing.


Sea Pie (_Hæmatopus ostralegus_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--September 27th, twelve all day; first on rock this season.

_Rockabill._--June 12th, 8 A.M., Sea Pies; also on 24th. November 4th,
several.

_Copeland (Mew) Island._--July 12th, fifty in vicinity.

_Rathlin Island._--May 28th, seven Oyster-catchers going N.

_Innishtrahull._--April 10th, two "Sea Magpies" on rocks. September
30th, one.

_Arranmore._--May 15th, sixteen on rocks.

_Killybegs._--March 4th, four Oyster-catchers on rocks. 20th, six.

_Broadhaven._--December 26th, seven; remain here.

_Eagle Island, E._--March 31st, two or three come from shore
occasionally.

_Arran Island, N._--January, February, and March, flocks during these
months on island. In July and August, Sea Pie. December, do.

_Skelligs._--March 31st and April 3d, one.


Grey Phalarope (_Phalaropus fulicarius_, Linn.).

_Dungarvan._--November 13th, one swimming, shot. Identified by Mr R. J.
Ussher.


Woodcock (_Scolopax rusticula_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--November 30th, 3 A.M., one got dead on balcony, killed
striking; wind strong N.W., squally.

_Dungarvan._--January 2d, 1887, one started in field near station.

_Tuskar Rock._--November 30th, one, 9 A.M., going N.

_Rockabill._--March 10th, two killed striking; wind strong S.E.,
gloomy.

_South Maidens._--January 31st, 9 P.M., one struck during a snow
shower, disabled. February 11th, one seen on rock. October 6th, one
killed striking.

_Innishtrahull._--December 21st, one; wind S.W., stormy. 27th to 30th,
one also seen.

_Tory Island._--February 4th, one killed striking; wind strong N.W.,
rain.

_Arranmore._--December 20th, Woodcock.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--December 18th, twelve on island, four shot; wind
strong N.E., snow.

_Broadhaven._--December 2d, one at noon.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--November 12th, one on rock; wind N., fresh.

_Slyne Head, S._--November 3d, one on island; gale from W. December
19th, one or two daily.

_Tearaght._--October 30th, one struck, 5 A.M. wind S.E., fog; not
killed.


Snipe.

_Fastnet._--September 18th, two about rock at 9 A.M., gloomy; very
large. October 30th, one round light.

_Mine Head._--January 18th, 25th, and 26th, noticed in marshes.
September 12th, one, and subsequently in frosty weather in marshes.

_Tuskar Rock._--November 27th, one snipe on rock.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--September 24th, one struck foremast, 11
P.M.; wind light S.W., cloudy; fell on deck--kept alive in cabin.

_Rockabill._--February 25th, one Jack Snipe killed striking. 26th,
Snipe passing at night. April 27th, one Jack Snipe; wind light S.E.,
misty. September 28th, one killed striking, 10 P.M.; misty. [Leg and
wing of Jack Snipe received.]

_South Maidens._--October 6th, one killed striking, 11 P.M.

_Innishtrahull._--January 17th, one on island. October 4th, one small
Snipe--[may have been Jack Snipe.]--killed striking, at 11 P.M. wind
strong S.E., hazy. December 2d, one Snipe; wind strong N., snow. 14th
and 15th, a Jack Snipe seen; wind very strong N.E. December 30th, six
to eight on island.

_Arranmore._--December 20th, Snipe.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--December 12th, one killed striking; wind fresh W.,
snow showers. [Leg and wing received.]

_Broadhaven._--December 3d, one Snipe and a Jack Snipe; both are
plentiful.

_Arran Island, N._--November 24th, a Snipe on island.


"Sea Larks," &c.

_Fastnet._--September 27th, sixteen "Sand Larks." They frequent rock at
intervals all the season. October 28th, four. December 11th, six.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--May 17th, 4 A.M., one Common Sandpiper got
dead on deck. [Leg and wing received.] May 31st, a "little Stint"
killed striking at midnight; overcast, showers. [Leg and wing of
Curlew; Sandpiper received on June 2d.] August 12th, one killed
striking. [Leg and wing of Curlew Sandpiper received.] October 14th,
three "Pectoral Sandpipers" about ship; 16th, two do.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--May 13th, one "Sand Lark."

_Rockabill._--February 25th, a "Temminck's Stint" killed striking.
[Doubtfully accurate. Leg and wing not received.] October 28th,
Sandpiper killed striking; gloomy, wing strong E. [Leg and wing of
Curlew Sandpiper received.]

_Copeland (Mew) Island._--May 7th, 11 P.M., ten "Sand Larks," six
killed striking; misty.

_South Maidens._--January 28th, six "Sand Larks" on rock. February 8th,
one.

_Innishtrahull._--September 6th and 7th, a number of "Sand Larks" on
island each day; wind strong S.W. December 15th, eight; wind very
strong N.E.

_Arranmore._--April 18th, one Ringed Dotterel. June 28th, four "Sand
Larks" on rocks. December 28th, seven Dotterel all day; wind strong
N.E. 21st, seven.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--November 3d, 3 A.M., one Sand Lark killed striking;
wind strong W., squally. [Leg and wing of Purple Sandpiper received.]
They are plentiful on rock, and come to dwellings in stormy weather.

_Broadhaven._--December 27th, one Ringed Dotterel.

_Eagle Island, E._--April 7th, five Turnstone and ten Purple Sandpiper
on island. [Leg and wing of Purple Sandpiper and Turnstone received.]
April 28th, two Common Sandpiper breeding; also last year. October
12th and November 1st, one Turnstone. December 28th, three; a gale from
N.W. October 26th, three Purple Sandpipers. November 6th, six remained
on island several days.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--November 17th, bird found dead in yard; wind S.W.,
fresh. "This species is seen on the top of a rock whenever a storm is
approaching, and during a gale." [Leg and wing of Turnstone received.]

_Arran Island, N._--December, "Sand Larks" about island.


Redshank (_Totanus calidris_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--September 21st, two about all day; wind fresh E.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--October 17th, one seen.

_Innishtrahull._--April 10th, one on island; wind light N.E. December
15th, one; wind very strong N.E. 30th, about ten on island.

_Arran Island, N._--Flocks during January, February, and March about
island. December, do.


Greenshank (_Totanus canescens_, Gmel.).

_Dungarvan._--December 5th, six seen on strand.


Curlew (_Numenius arquata_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--September 5th, six at 2 A.M. about light; clear. 8th, four
going S.E.

_Mine Head._--February 7th, two at night calling; fog. March 19th,
several during day; great fog. 22d, flying about lantern in night; fog.
August 22d, 9 P.M., Curlew heard passing; also noted September 2d,
14th, and December 20th.

_Tuskar Rock._--March 13th, Curlew passed 4.30 A.M.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--February 23d, one about ship.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--September 25th, Curlew about lantern 10 P.M.

_Rockabill._--March 19th, Curlew about all day. June 16th and July
28th, noted.

_South Maidens._--March 19th, five going N.E.; wind strong S. 26th, 3
A.M., fifty; wind strong S.W.

_Innishtrahull._--January 2d, 14th, 21st, and February 16th, three to
seven noticed about island. September 8th, a flock on island.

_Dunree Head._--Noted November 2d, 5th, and December 9th.

_Arranmore._--December 15th, three.

_Killybegs._--April 8th, six. Noted October 8th, 12th, and 26th.

_Broadhaven._--October 19th, Curlew in flocks remain here.

_Eagle Island, E._--March 28th, one.

_Arran Island, N._--Curlew during February and March. Noted also April
30th.

_Tearaght._--August 21st, two going N.E. September 13th, one seen.


Whimbrel (_Numenius phæopus_, Linn.).

_Mine Head._--August 17th, four going S.W., flying at about 400 feet,
and calling.

_Dungarvan._--September 10th, two; rare at this season. 21st, four
flying high to S.E., and whistling.

_Coningbeg light-ship._--April 28th, a flock passed N. over ship; wind
N.E., fresh, hazy.

_Innishtrahull._--June 4th and 7th, a few "young Curlew" about island;
misty. [Probably Whimbrel.]

_Arranmore._--June 26th, one Whimbrel going S.E. December 17th, two [?
Curlew.].

_Blackrock, Mayo._--May 10th, sixty May birds going N.E.; wind N.,
light.


Terns.

_Fastnet._--September 4th, several "Mew Gulls" in night. None struck;
misty.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--May 25th and 26th, great flocks of Common Tern
about ship; 30th, one flock.

_Rockabill._--May 22d, Terns noticed.

_Copeland (Mew) Island._--May 19th, forty "mews" or "Sea-Purrs"--first
arrival. June 5th, fifty hatching on island. 18th, a hundred about
island. September 11th, they left to-day. They build on rocks and on
grass; not more than four eggs in each nest.

_Innishtrahull._--May 27th, two "Sea-Tern" about island.

_Killybegs._--May 16th, two Terns. June 3d, about eight.

_Eagle Island, E._--May 31st, two "Sea-Mew."

_Arran Island, N._--June 14th and 16th, a flock of Tern about. July
16th, a flock. September 16th, do.

_Tearaght._--October 3d, "Lesser Terns." Hundreds flying about;
remained until 7th October.


Gulls.

_Fastnet._--September 4th, flocks of Grey Gulls going S.E.; seemed this
year's birds. November 5th, two large Royal Gulls seen; rare here.
Small Royal [Lesser Black-backed?--R. M. B.] Gulls frequent rock during
year. December 10th, Kittiwakes in large numbers about rock feeding.

_Mine Head._--March 2d, Black-headed Gulls and Herring Gulls in
fields. July 19th to 31st, about thirty to a hundred Gulls about and
at intervals after. August 9th, about sixty Kittiwakes on rocks; also
Herring Gulls, Black-headed, and Common Gulls. September 27th, one
Royal Gull. December 12th, January 13th and 20th, one to three Royal
Gulls. January 1887, Kittiwakes do not remain here.

_Dungarvan._--September 11th, thousands of Black-headed Gulls fishing.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--March 27th, large flocks of Gulls. April
17th, do. going E.; wind E., fresh.

_Rockabill._--December 14th, large numbers of Gulls during storm from E.

_Innishtrahull._--April 16th, 17th, and 20th, a few Black-headed
and numbers of "Common" Gulls. September 8th to 11th, a number of
Grey-backed Gulls. December 15th, Herring Gulls, Kittiwakes, and "Grey
Gulls" still in vicinity.

_Dunree Head._--June 7th, flocks. December 14th, eight.

_Arranmore._--May 21st, "shot a bird which answers the description of
Richardson Skua given in the 'Dictionary of British Birds.'" [Leg and
wing not forwarded.]

_Killybegs._--July 11th, forty.

_Broadhaven._--September 25th, five Black-headed Gulls and flock of
Kittiwake.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--March 6th, flock of Gulls about rock; 21st, "small
Gulls" first visit rock to breed. November 5th, two uncommon Gulls
soaring during day; wind N., strong. "They were cream-coloured Gulls,
about the size of a small Royal Gull, or a little larger than the
Kittiwake; bill and legs like the latter; dusky cream colour on breast,
but a richer cream colour on the back; covert feathers of wings edged
with a shade darker colour, marking the feathers very distinctly; the
long feathers of wings gradually becoming lighter towards the tips to
an ivory shade; wing full and well developed. I wounded one bird, and
it flew to the mainland; the other was less distinctly marked. They are
same sort as visited locality in 1881." [_See_ 1881 Report, p. 86; 1882
Report, p. 104; 1884 Report, p. 181.] January 6th, 1887, twenty Royal
Gulls; seldom see so many, as they generally go in couples.

_Slyne Head, S._--October 10th, flocks of Gulls.

_Arran Island, N._--Flocks in May and March, July and August.

_Samphire Island._--January, February, and March, Cormorants and Gulls.

_Tearaght._--February 27th, a large flock of Herring Gulls. March 5th,
Kittiwakes flying round island. August 24th, one Skua Gull chasing
Gulls close to island. October 4th, thousands of Kittiwakes. During
October Kittiwakes, all young, plentiful.

_Skelligs._--March 12th, Kittiwakes first landed on rock. December
10th, great number of Kittiwake, Herring Gulls, and a few Great
Black-backed.


Manx Shearwater (_Puffinus anglorum_, Temminck).

_Fastnet._--May 24th, 1 A.M., six; one killed striking; misty; the
first seen since I came here.

_Mine Head._--June 29th, heard distinctly several times about 11 P.M.
calm and dark.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--May 27th and 28th, several about the ship. In
September, several.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--March 27th, large flock Manx Shearwaters;
wind strong f S.W. May 23d, flocks apparently after fish.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--May 1st, large flock of "Mackerel Cocks"
going E.

_Rockabill._--April 22d, one caught on balcony at midnight; wind E.,
gloomy.

_Arranmore._--March 18th, eighteen about rocks, the first seen; wind
strong S., misty.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--October 23d, some going S. November 2d, a great
quantity, 7 to 9 A.M., going S.W.; wind strong S.W.

_Slyne Head, S._--November 3d, continuous flocks going S.W., from 9 to
11 A.M.; width of string about 100 yards.

_Tearaght._--April 11th, heard for first time this year.

_Skelligs._--February 25th, 10 P.M., wind strong S.W.; misty; first
heard on rock. August 26th, the last night bird heard on rock.


Fork-tailed Petrel (_Cymochorea leucorrhoa_, Vieill.).

_Eagle Island, W._--October, 2d week, one caught at lantern. [Leg and
wing received.]


Stormy Petrel (_Procellaria pelagica_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--August 24th, three about lantern in night; first this
season.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--September 21st to 23d, several about ship
during day; wind fresh, clear. 24th, three on ship, midnight. Noted
also October 5th, 8th, 10th, to 13th; and on 15th there was storm from
W.; great numbers about ship.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--September 25th, two. October 8th, five.
12th, fourteen about ship; stormy. December 9th, five; wind N.W., fresh.

_Tuskar Rock._--September 26th, 4 A.M., one caught alive.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--October 15th, one in water about ship.

_Rockabill._--June 8th, 4 P.M., six; wind strong S.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--October 1st, one found dead on island.

_Eagle Island, E._--May 24th, one caught alive. [Received in flesh.]
The only one seen since I came here.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--May 5th, some about light, 1 A.M. foggy; the first
seen. June 5th, numbers about light during night; wind light S.W.,
gloomy. September 24th, 1 A.M., one caught at lantern.

_Tearaght._--April 14th, several flying round light all night. October
30th, some struck 2 A.M., none killed.

_Skelligs._--April 27th, 10 P.M., one struck, disabled. May 7th, first
heard under stones.


Razorbill (_Alca torda_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--October 26th, several large flocks passing S.E. at
intervals of about 15 minutes. December 10th, large numbers about rock.

_Mine Head._--February 14th, several young Razorbills seen at
intervals. July 9th and 10th, several. August 9th, young Razorbills
heard--and at all hours on the water up to September 1st.

_Rathlin Island._--March 17th, flocks.

_Arranmore._--March 10th, eight Razorbills; wind fresh S.E., misty.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--March 16th, "flocks of Auks" on water. 22d, do.

_Tearaght._--March 14th, Razorbills arrived. August 9th, Guillemots
and Razorbills left rock by this date. September 25th, Razorbills
old and young fishing about island. October 4th, young Razorbills in
water by thousands; plentiful during October, all young. November 9th,
Razorbills about rock in thousands.

_Skelligs._--March 12th, first came on rock. August 14th (see under
Puffin). December 10th, a number of young Razorbills about rock;
remained all month. 17th, several old ones, and Guillemot to 31st.


Guillemot (_Uria troile_, Linn.).

_Mine Head._--July 26th, a few.

_Dungarvan._--September 15th, in great numbers; fishing.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--May 30th to June 3d, flocks of "Murs"
passing S.E. Noted also December 1st to 5th, and numerous flocks on
December 10th going S.W.

_Rathlin Island._--March 17th, flocks on water.

_Arranmore._--March 8th, twenty-eight, first seen; wind strong S.,
misty.

_Killybegs._--October 16th, three seen. 28th, four.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--January 24th, flock of Guillemots at noon; wind
fresh N.E.

_Tearaght._--February 5th, Guillemots arrived on rock, 8 A.M.; wind
strong S.E. August 9th, Guillemots and Razorbills all gone by this date.

_Skelligs._--January 28th, first landed on rock; wind S.E., fresh.
August 14th (see under Puffin). December 17th, several to 31st.


Little Auk (_Mergulus alle_, Linn.).

_Mine Head._--March 28th, about half a dozen answering the description
of Roche given in Morris' "Birds."


Puffin (_Fratercula arctica_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--April 12th, 7 A.M., about sixty alighted on the Little
Fastnet. A most unusual occurrence. September 25th, an immense number,
6 to 8 A.M., close to rock; came from W., and left in a body for S.E.;
misty, wind fresh S.W.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--In September several about ship.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--March 26th, two Sea Parrots at 5 P.M.
drifting past; wind strong S.W.; the first seen. May 2d, Sea Parrots
drifting past to E. 4th and 9th, constantly passing.

_Rockabill._--December 14th, 11 A.M., a storm from E. Large numbers of
"Puffins." [Probably Razorbills.]

_Rathlin Island._--March 17th, flocks.

_Innishtrahull._--June 7th to 16th, a number fishing.

_Dunree Head._--June 26th, flocks.

_Arranmore._--March 9th, ten Puffins; the first seen; wind strong S.,
gloomy.

_Eagle Island, E._--March 26th to 31st, flocks of "Puffins and Sea
Parrots" going W. April 3d and 29th, small flocks going W. October 13th
to 18th, continuous flocks of Sea Parrots going W.; wind strong N.W.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--April 11th, Puffins first arrived on water. 23d,
first perched on rock.

_Arran Island, N._--February 14th, several flocks of "Puffins" [?--R.
M. B.] going N. Large flocks in May. In July and August, Puffins.

_Tearaght._--March 25th, Puffins arrived in large numbers. August 15th,
all gone by this date.

_Valencia._--A few at intervals, June, July, and August. Four struck,
August 12th, none killed.

_Skelligs._--March 21st, first came on rock for about two hours, 4 P.M.
April 2d, Puffins landed _en masse_, 3 P.M. wind strong S.W. August
6th, great numbers left. 14th, most of the birds left, except a few
Puffins--night birds (Manx Shearwater)--and Mother Careys. 27th, all
gone.


Great Northern Diver (_Colymbus glacialis_, Linn.).

_Mine Head._--March. 28th, one seen off boat-landing.

_Dungarvan._--January 1st, 1887, three resting on water, calling loudly
to each other; wind S.W., fresh.

_Rockabill._--March 13th, a Northern Diver all day; wind light E. April
17th, one. November 4th, one about rock.

_Broadhaven._--October 24th, one seen fishing; wind S.E., light.


Cormorant (includes Shag).

_Fastnet._--September 4th, two flocks Green Cormorants going S.E.

_Mine Head._--April 19th, a few Crested Cormorants hatching on cliffs;
thirty or forty of the common kind also hatching. They return to the
cliffs in the evening summer and winter. They do not follow the coast
line, but keep a straight course overland.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--May 29th, two going W. October 9th, one on
ship.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--October 26th, two. November 2d, two going E.

_Tuskar Rock._--December 16th, fifteen on rock.

_Rockabill._--July 25th and 27th, some seen. November 4th, Cormorants.

_Rathlin Island._--May 30th, two Green Cormorants.

_Innishtrahull._--January 15th, eleven on rocks; wind W., strong.
October 6th, three. Cormorants are constantly here.

_Dunree Head._--April 21st, a flock; also noted June 29th, September
23d, October 24th, November 10th, and from December 20th to 28th, in
great numbers. On every occasion they were going N.

_Broadhaven._--September 25th, twelve Green Cormorants and two hundred
Cormorants.

_Eagle Island, E._--April 2d, one. October 26th, may be seen almost
daily; are residents.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--January 26th, a strange Cormorant on rock 10 A.M.
wind strong N.E. "Grey head with black band from base of beak to neck;
white patch under eye, and deep green crest; rich bronze green back,
and white patch on sides." February 26th, a strange Cormorant. April
1st and 10th, do. January 8th, 1887, two strange Cormorants. The male
was the same as in January 1886; the female had breast dusky white,
getting gradually brown up to the neck; back, the same as the Common
Cormorant.

_Arran Island, N._--During May, flocks passing. In July and August,
some.

_Samphire Island._--January, February, and March, Cormorants and Gulls.

_Valencia._--Three or four June 1st, 8th, July 4th, and 26th.


Gannet (_Sula bassana_, Linn.).

_Fastnet._--April 18th, large flocks of Gannets seen since 1st inst.
May 21st, three large flocks going N.W.; several of last year's birds
among them. October 25th, several flocks.

_Mine Head._--August 11th, one seen. None for a long time before this;
scarce here.

_Dungarvan._--September 15th, Gannets.

_Coningbeg light-ship._--May 24th, two about ship. In September,
several.

_Barrels Rock light-ship._--July 12th, three going W. September 22d,
two going E. October 8th, odd Gannets going E. all day. December 1st to
5th, Gannets.

_Tuskar Rock._--October 30th, a great number about rock.

_Arklow South Light-ship._--April 12th, flocks; 17th to 27th, one to
ten at intervals flying N.E. May 1st, several going S.E. all day.
August 22d and 23d, several flocks flying N.E. September 19th, large
flock going N.E. Noted also 22d, 25th, and several on 26th flying S.W.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--March 30th, flocks going N. April 13th to
20th, flocks going N. at intervals. May 1st, do.; 6th, large flocks
going S. September 18th, flocks.

_Kish Light-ship._--A few Gannets noted May 8th, 12th, June 3d, 18th,
July 3d, 28th, and August 26th, generally going N.E.

_Rockabill._--January 28th, Gannets all day.

_Copeland (Mew) Island._--June 12th, twenty in vicinity. July 4th, some
going S.

_Innishtrahull._--March 12th, five going N.W.; wind light S.E.--the
first seen this year. 28th, three. April 29th, a number fishing.
October 4th, one Gannet. December 15th, none seen since October 4th.

_Dunree Head._--September 8th, twenty seen; 24th, one.

_Arranmore._--March 11th, Gannets first seen; wind fresh S.E., misty.

_Broadhaven._--September 25th, Gannets in thousands all day.

_Eagle Island, E._--March 26th and 31st, continuous flocks of Gannets
going W. April 18th to 28th, forty to fifty fishing; 29th, small flock.
October 13th to 18th, continuous flocks going W.; wind strong N.W.
27th, twenty.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--January 24th, three Gannets--first seen for year.
26th, flocks going N. March 7th, seven--the last seen going N. 22d,
flocks fishing about rock. September 20th, odd Gannets going S. 26th,
small numbers passing S. during day; wind strong S. October 2d, great
numbers passing S., flying low, and not fishing; wind strong S.E.

_Arran Island, N._--February 16th, flocks all day going N. June 10th,
very numerous all day. In July and August, Gannets in flocks.

_Tearaght._--February 27th, Gannets going S. October 6th, hundreds of
old and young close to rock. During October Gannets were plentiful;
they came from N. about daylight; some remained until noon, and then
went S.

_Skelligs._--February 6th, first landed on the Little Skellig; wind
fresh W. August 27th, still on Little Skellig. September 26th, Gannet
left the Little Skellig.


Heron (_Ardea cinerea_, Linn.)

_Mine Head._--January 26th, one. June 13th, one passed S.W. September
4th, two flying high to S.; calm. 24th, one going N. November 3d, one.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--July 27th, five "Cranes" going S.E.
September 26th, two going W.

_Rockabill._--July 16th, a "Crane" at 11 A.M. December 30th, one Heron
2 P.M., going W.

_Rathlin Island._--May 16th, two Herons going W.

_Arranmore._--June 28th, three Herons going S.E.; wind light S.W.
December 19th, one.

_Broadhaven._--November 18th, seven going S; wind strong S.W.

_Arran Island, N._--May 9th, one Heron on island; calm. June 6th, one.
July 20th, one. August 1st, two.


Geese.

_Mine Head._--November 21st, two going N., 3 P.M.

_Dungarvan._--November 17th, two swimming in sea 7 A.M.

_Rockabill._--June 20th, three Wild Geese.

_Innishtrahull._--May 15th, one shot. November 4th, twenty-seven
flying very high to S.; wind very strong S.W. November 25th, 30th, and
December 2d, four to seven passing S.W. On November 26th, a large flock
going N.E., and making a great noise. December 21st to 24th, six to
eight about island, Brent Geese; stormy from S.W.

_Tory Island._--Wild Geese, four to twenty-four noted January 6th,
10th, 11th, 24th, February 5th, and May 12th--in every case coming from
N. and going S. January 25th, nine Barnacle on lake.

_Arranmore._--December 21st, Barnacle.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--September 18th, eighteen Barnacle going S.--the
first seen; earlier than usual; wind light N.E. 21st, seven going S.;
never saw so many passing so early in season. December 23d, forty-five,
two killed by keeper. January 5th, 1887, more Barnacle passed here this
winter than for some years previous. They are apparently returning N.
now, as several hundred passed on the 3d inst., and did not alight on
island.

_Broadhaven._--October 28th, a flock of Brent Geese going S.; wind
S.E., strong. December 3d, great numbers of Wild Geese.

_Eagle Island, B._--April 13th, large flock of Barnacle going N. 17th,
a flock heard passing 11 P.M. October 19th, about a hundred Barnacle
going S.W.; wind N.E., light. December 1st, one shot.

_Blackrock, Mayo._--November 3d, one on rock shot. 25th, ten "Grey Lags
or Grass Barnacle" about rock, six shot; some about lantern 11 P.M.
gloomy.

_Slyne Head, S._--October 6th, sixteen Barnacle going S.W.--the first
this winter; noted also 22d and 26th. November 13th, three "young
Barnacle," two shot. November 16th, eighteen.

_Arran Island, N._--April 26th, five Wild Geese going N.E. November 6th
to 9th, a few Barnacle noted.

_Samphire Island._--January, February, and March, Barnacle and Wild
Duck; they leave last week in April.


Ducks.

_Fastnet._--October 24th, six Duck.

_Dungarvan._--September 10th, thirteen on rock. 14th, large flock of
Golden Widgeon--first this season. 30th, about forty Widgeon. November
27th, seven Teal; not plentiful here. December 1st, large flock of
Common Duck; 27th, large flock of Teal.

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--July 27th, seven Wild Duck.

_Tuskar Rock._--November 27th, one Wild Duck at lantern at midnight;
misty. December 19th, one on rock.

_Arklow North Light-ship._--May 3d, flock going N. September 15th,
three. October 20th, some Wild Ducks round ship.

_Kish Light-ship._--March 1st, flock going S.

_Rockabill._--January 26th, Wild Duck passing W. March 15th, Wild Duck
all day. June 5th, "Eider Duck and young" [?--R. M. B.]. October 29th,
four Wild Duck 10 A.M.

_Copeland (Mew) Island._--April 22d, two. August 3d, one and six young
ones. 7th, one struck lantern 11 P.M.; wounded; very dark; wind light.

_Rathlin Island._--April 3d, noon, three Eider Duck drifting W. 16th,
seventeen Eider Duck on the water; wind light N. "The Eider Duck was
seen here sixteen years ago." June 7th, two Sheldrake.

_Tory Island._--Wild Duck, eight to ten, noted February 3d, March 17th
and 30th, coming from N., going S.

_Arranmore._--April 19th, two going N.W.

_Rathlin O'Birne._--December 31st, four on island; wind fresh S.E.;
misty; one shot.

_Broadhaven._--December 26th, flock Wild Duck.

_Arran Island, N._--January 14th, twelve Wild Duck; 21st, nine. April
24th, seven.

_Samphire Island._--January, February, and March, Barnacle and Wild
Duck; they leave last week in April.


"Merganser."

_Dungarvan._--November 25th, five fishing in bay. December 29th, two.


Birds not Identified.

_Coningbeg Light-ship._--October 8th, 11 A.M., "two birds, fifty yards
from ship, feeding on the water; light grey on back, and body white and
black; bill from 1½ to 2 inches long."

_Barrels Rock Light-ship._--October 4th, "A strange bird rested and
flew N. It was about size of a Blackbird, had white wings and a white
breast. Could not catch it."


Bats.

_Fastnet._--October 3d, one seen; sleeps in cleft on rock.

       *       *       *       *       *

Late in the autumn an immigration of the Greater Spotted Woodpecker
(_Dendrocopus major_, Linn.) occurred. It is a very rare visitor to
Ireland, and although not obtained at any light station the following
records may be of interest:--

November 27th, one at Kilkeel, Co. Down. A second near Newry, Co. Down,
about same date. A third at Glasslough, Co. Monaghan (see _Zoologist_,
1887, p. 75). A fourth at Newcastle, Co. Wicklow, in February 1887.
This species is also recorded from Northumberland on 18th and 20th
October.


       *       *       *       *       *


Transcriber Note

Minor typos corrected. Possible variant spellings of Genera and Species
mostly left as printed. The words "Solan Geese" from the second column of
the table on pp. 20-21 was moved to the column head in order to compress
the table.





*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK REPORT ON THE MIGRATION OF BIRDS IN
THE SPRING AND AUTUMN OF 1886. ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
